Ancient Tibet and its Frontagers.
By Thos. W. Kingsmill, Esq.
In my former paper on "The Mantses and the Golden
Chersonese" I made an attempt to trace these Mantse tribes
through the province of Yunnan, and well into Ssech'wen,
where they established amongst others the ancient kingdom
of Derge. This state, then extending far east of its present
position on the Drechu or upper Kinsha, was the original
seat of what afterwards, under the rule of the last descendants
of the later Han, came to be called the kingdom of Shuh.
Geographically Derge formed part of an extensive district
once known as Kandar or Gandar, which stretched far
into Annam, and to the N.W. reached to Ningyuen fu in
Ssech'wen, where the name still survives in a somewhat
mutilated form in that of the fertile valley of Kiench'ang,
the Caindu of Marco Polo. Although in these regions, as
we learn from the semi-mythical story of the Heo Han Shu,
quoted in the former paper, there was already a considerable
admixture of Tibetan (Böd) blood, the Mans were up till
medieval times the predominant factor in the population.
Mantse blood, in fact, stretched in early times far into
the Hukwang, and traces of it are to be found in the
local nomenclature of all the lower Yangtse provinces:
this is, however, beyond the scope of the present article.
Our earliest historical notices of these regions are mainly
4

22
ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
to be found in the Shiki or Book of History, a work
composed by Ssema T'sien towards the end of the second
century B.C. Various rhythmical ballads have, however,
been preserved in the Shu King or Historical Classic, and
of these from a geographical point of view the metrical
portion of the so-called Yukung is undoubtedly the most
valuable. I have already referred to the description of
Liang, i.e. Derge:-
Min and Po came under civilisation;
Along the courses of the T'o and T'sim.
The T'sai-mung were planted;
The Ho (Hor) tribes brought under.
Not less interesting are the lines referring to the land
called in the gloss Yu Cheo . Here the form of the
written character indicates that at one time it was
homophonous with siang (elephant) as well as with
shu (loose, unfold), and so was originally pronounced
Sar or Ser. Now we can trace T'sin and its homologues
to a similar ancient pronunciation, Ser or Sir; so that
Yu Cheo was in reality the land of the Sers or Sirs, in
other words the Seres, under which name the peoples
inhabiting what is now China came to be known in Europe
in the Augustine age. Virgil wrote his Georgics most
probably about B.C. 35, when the memory of the great
conqueror T'sin Shihwangti had not yet died out, and in
the second Georgic [v. 120] he thus addresses Augustus:-
"What, great Cæsar shall I tell thee?"
Velleraque ut foliis depectant tenuia Seres?
How from the leaves the Seres comb their fleeces fine?
The silk referred to here was clearly not that of the
carefully nurtured Bombyx mori, but that of the more robust
Antheraa Pernyi, from which in all the northern provinces
the Chinese gather the so-called wild silk, from which the

ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
23
natives weave their pongees. Anyone who has seen the
Antheræa spinning her cocoon in an oak copse in eastern
Shantung cannot but be struck with the correctness of
the poet's description.
In connection with this land the ballad proceeds :-
The I (or rather Sa), the Lok, the Ch'in and Kan
Joined the Ho.
Yungpo was embanked,
The Ko and Mang marshes put in order.
The only one of these capable of identification is the Lok,
but it and the others were certainly connected with the
complex of lofty mountains between Ssech'wen and the Wei
valley in Shensi. The text, however, is hopelessly corrupt,
and besides the land has seemingly undergone much
superficial change. It is interesting to notice from the
early gloss that in addition to varnish, hemp and grass-
cloth, the country produced silk.
Now the little we know of these T'sins would rather
connect them with the Mans in the south than with the
Chinese in the north, and the Tso Chwen seems to indicate
that there was a difference in language as well as in habits
from the latter, while it once or twice refers to friendly
feelings as existing with the southern tribes in Ssech'wen.
The account of their origin given in the Shiki does not
help us much, but is curious. A dark coloured bird dropped
an egg, and the grand-daughter of the " emperor Chwenhu".
swallowed it and afterwards gave birth to a son, who in time
became a great chieftain. He married the daughter of
Shao-tien [which, it seems to me, may be a synonym
for T'saidam], who gave birth to Ta-fei (Taföt). Now
these old genealogical stories have generally their origin
in some topical tradition; and this is easily read as
indicating a belief that the Böd tribes were in some way

24
ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
connected with T'saidam, a sufficiently probable contingency.
This Taföt, seemingly an older rendering of Taböt, i.e. Tibet,
the same authority informs us, was likewise known as the
Payik i.e. Lord of Yik, which in my former notes I have
shown was a synonym for Derge, then reaching far towards
the east of Ssech'wen. Of Böt, the oldest name we find
for modern Tibet in Indian and Chinese lore alike, I shall
have much to say lower down.
In many of their customs, more especially those
connected with burial, as also in their troglodytic habits,
the inhabitants of the land of T'sin show affinity with
those of northern and eastern Ssech'wen. According to the
Tso-chwen we find a fraternal feeling existing between
T'sin and Pa (eastern Ssech'wen) as early as the 7th
century B.C., and in the wars at the close of the 4th century
B.C., when T'sin and Chu, the then most powerful state
in central China, were waging bloody wars for the lordship
of the Empire, we find that Pa, apparently without a
struggle, threw in its lot with T'sin, and permitted the
passage of T'sin Shihwang's troops through its territory;
with the result that the old kingdom of Chu was, for T'sin
Shihwang's time at least, extinguished. More curiously still,
the same tie of affinity finally helped Liu Pang in founding
his empire of Han. Liu Pang was the champion of the
last descendant of the house of Chu, and it was in the
rôle of avenging his murder that he claimed the assistance
of the Mantse states, and finally received from Shihwangti's
feeble heir the Imperial Emblems.
Pa in eastern Ssech'wen was conterminous with, on the
S.E., the ancient state of K'ienchung. This latter comprised
the knot of mountainous country in the extreme west of
Hupeh, forming the prefecture of Shinan and adjoining
districts. Even now, speaking from personal experience, the

ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
25
people here are of different type from their neighbours in the
rest of Hupeh. Their complexion is distinctly lighter, their
heads longer, their hair finer and in many cases of a decided
brown and disposed towards waviness, and their eyes of
lighter colour and wanting in most cases the characteristic
fold of the upper eyelid. All these are Mantse characteristics,
and indicate the people allied with their purer Mantse brethren
of the Kiench'ang valley. The name in modern Chinese is
Kienchung, or rather, as pronounced in the north,
Ch'ienchung, but in the older dialects of the south it is still
K'imchung, or, according to its phonetic, K'amchung.
This affords another instance of the prevailing modern
drift of the aboriginal tribes westward in Ssech'wen and
the adjacent provinces. The name still survives, but it is to
be found along the eastern flank of Tibet proper, where
it reappears in the Khamdo of the maps. Lieut.-Col.
Waddell, in his Lhassa and its Mysteries, speaks of the
people of these districts as "the upstanding athletic Khams
from the east with the fine physique and free carriage," and
records their independence of character. All these are still
marked traits of the people about Shinan fu as well; a portrait
that he gives of one of these Khams might equally well answer
for one of the ordinary dwellers in the Shinan district.
Of the T'sins, unfortunately, our knowledge is entirely
derived from Chinese, and therefore unfriendly, sources,
and we are left completely in the dark as to their original
seats and their western and northern frontagers. We can,
however, by diligent search, learn something. About 770
B.C. the Turkish tribe afterwards known as the Hiung
Nu attacked and look the capital town of the kingdom of
Cheo in the valley of the Wei in Shensi, and killed the
king himself. His heir appealed for help to the T'sins,
then apparently seated to the south-west, who responded

26
ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
to the call and drove away the invaders. But the T'sins
having taken the country, and finding it good, had no
intention of retiring, and in consequence Cheo had to move
eastward to the valley of the Lok, and there found a new
home. Not many years after we find T'sin establishing
a new capital at or near the present Fengt'siang fu in the
rich Wei valley, and this would seem to indicate that the
original position of the tribe must have been the elevated
plateau north and north-east of Ch'engtu, forming the
boundary lands of Ssech'wen and Kansu. Till within the
last century this land still continued to be occupied by
Mantses, and it is only within the last hundred years that
they have been assimilated, or forced to take up their residence
in the highlands.
The chief town of these districts is officially called
Sungp'wan, and it and the country round is mainly occupied
by a (so-called) Tibetan tribe, the Sifan of the
Chinese, but who, according to Rockhill, call themselves
Sharba or Sharbar.
and Sungp'wan
The three words Sharbar, Sifan
are, however, identical, the two latter
being only slightly varying Chinese transcripts of the former,
which cannot be more nearly represented in Chinese
characters. Very curiously the phonetic element in fan
is also in some cases to be read as p'o, as in the
P'o-yang Lake, and this has led to immense confusion.
Following certain Chinese authors, modern writers have
divided these Fans into two, nomadic and agricultural, the
former being the Sifan and the latter the T'ufan ±,
and looking at the characters as written such an interpretation
doubtless looks natural enough; the Si and T'u are, however,
merely phonetic, and the second character is to be read
in the one case fan and in the other p'o,-Sifan (Sharbar)
and Tup'o (Tibet). This agrees with what we learn from

ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
27
the accounts of the British expedition; thus we read [Percival
Landon, vol. ii. p. 376]:-"The origin of the name Tibet is
phonetically curious. The inhabitants of the country spell
its name Böd.' This, in accordance with the recognised
rules of Tibetan pronunciation, they pronounce 'Peu'
(as in French, but with a phantom 'd'). Upper in Tibetan
is 'Stod,' which for similar reasons is pronounced 'teu.'
Upper Tibet, as opposed to the lower districts to the
north, east and west of Lhassa, is about conterminous with
what we regard as Central Tibet. The pronunciation of
'Teu-peu(d) was crisped on the Darjeeling frontier into
Tibet, and thus became known to Europeans in this form."
From the fifth or sixth centuries these characters
with the sound T'up'o have been used to represent Tibet.
Töböd is then the name for the high-lying portion of Tibet
which adjoins Kashmir and Ladak, the country generally
being known as Böd, or rather Böd-yul. Sharbar, the
Chinese Sifan, in Tibetan again simply means "Eastern
people." The latter part of the word "Bar," the "people,"
was the name of the eastern part of what is now Ssech'wen,
in contrast with Shuk, or Derge, the western. Pa, repre-
sented by the purely phonetic character, still survives
in the sub-prefecture of Pacheo, and in Pahien,
the district of which Chungking is the prefectural capital, as
well as in many other place names in this country.
Before leaving the Mantse country, one other of the
tribes deserves consideration as still forming an important
element in that strange ethnic conglomeration, the modern
Tibetan. This tribe, or rather people, known as the Horbas,
or Horbar, still survives as a separate entity about Kanze,
on the upper waters of the Yalung; but although they
have for the most part ceased to exist as separate communities,
the type is very persistent all through Tibet, being in strong

28
ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
contrast with the aboriginal type misnamed Mongol, and
wrongly presumed to have come originally from the north.
This people first come into our purview in the Shiki
[chap. cxvi], where we find them called K'wen, or K'wen-
ming, the latter syllable standing here for bar. They were
associated with Kiünch'ang, in which we can recognise
the Carajan of Marco Polo, the Kandar of the Mohammedan
Rashiduddin, of whom I spoke in my former notice. In the
old name of modern Ch'engkiang fu (K'wen-cheo), in that
of Yunnan fu (K'wenming) and in that of Tali fu (K'wenmi)
we can trace the original seats of the tribe across Yunnan.
Ethnologically these Horbar belonged to the larger division of
the Mantses.
Speaking of this element in the Tibetan people, Lieut.-
Col. Waddell [1.c. p. 346] says —
"The physical type of the Tibetans I find here (Hlassa),
as elsewhere from Gyantse onwards, is of two well marked
and almost equally prevalent kinds, the one round-headed,
flat-faced, and oblique-eyed, approximating to the pure
Mongol from the Steppes (Sok), the other longer-headed with
nearly regular features, a fairly shapely long nose with a good
bridge and little of the "Kalmuk eye, approximating to
the Tartars of Turkestan and the nomads of the great northern
plateau (Hor). It was noticeable that a large number of the
nobility and higher officials, the Jongpons and others,
belonged to this longer-headed and longer-nosed group, which
seemed also to comprise many of the Mahomedan Balti
coolies who had come with us to Lhasa by way of India,
from their country bordering the Pamirs. The latter are
indeed scarcely distinguishable from the long-headed Tibetans.
Several recent migrations of these nomad Hor Tartars have
taken place, I am told, far into south-western Tibet, to the
east of the Yamdok Lake near the borders of Bhotan."

ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
29
The meaning of this will be explained lower down
in the
paper. Again, speaking of Kanze, referred to above,
Mr. Rockhill tells us :-
"Kanze is the chief city of the Horba states, locally
called Horsé K'a nga, the five Horba Clans'; their names are
Kangsar, Mazar, Berim, Chuwo and Chango. This region is,
after Derge, the most populous and wealthy of eastern Tibet.
The people are among the best looking I have seen in
Tibet, and have less heavy features; aquiline noses, hazel eyes,
and curly or wavy hair are not uncommon.
especially are good-looking, and the natural comeliness of
the people is not a little increased by their bright coloured
attire and gold and silver ornaments."
The women
Horse racing, singing and dancing are favourite amuse-
ments of these people, and it is worthy of note that the double
flute, long since disused in China, and the three-stringed lute,
the sansien of the Chinese, still survive amongst them.
It seems to me open to doubt whether all this blond
element in Tibet is Mantse; we shall lower down seo
that a good deal has to be classed as Kiang, or rather
Kuru. The original Mantses or Maurya peoples were,
however, not far removed in blood, and we may therefore
feel ourselves quite justified in classing both Mantses and
Kiang under the general heading of Turanians, the full
meaning of which 1 shall explain lower down. The Mantse
element the Chinese themselves trace up to the Maurya
family of Central India, and the evidences on the spot
are not inconsistent with this origin.
There is, however, another and far more obscure element
in these populations, which seemingly we must look on as the
aboriginal. Col. Waddell would trace it to the Mongols
on the northern frontier; but though there has been for many
centuries a considerable admixture of this so-called Mongolic
5

30
ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
element, I do not think that we are justified in considering it
fundamental, and would rather expect to find the true abori-
ginal element in the Böd peoples who have left their name
indelibly associated with the country. As in the former
case so in this, these Böd people belong to the same wide-
spreading family as the aboriginal races who once occupied
the north and east of Asia prior to the advent of the blond
peoples. Our earliest knowledge of these Böd tribes is
curiously not derived from Chinese but from outside sources.
In a former paper, the "Serica of Ptolemy and its Inhabitants"
[Trans. XIX. 44], I translated the portions of the Geographica
relating to these districts; I may make a few extracts. Speak-
ing of the mountains bounding Serica, by which term he
referred to Eastern Turkestan, he mentions on the south :-
"The eastern portion of those called the Emodon and Seric,
extending to long. 165°, lat. 36°, and the range called the
Ottorokorras, whose extremities lie in long. 160°, lat. 36°.
Ptolemy's longitudes, for reasons explained in the paper, are
of course of little account, but his latitudes, considering the
time and the untrustworthy authorities with whom he had to
deal with regard to these distant and almost unknown lands,
are wonderful approximations to the truth. We can have no
difficulty in placing these mountain ranges as, respectively,
the Karakorum range of the Himayalas, the Altyn Tagh and
the Burkan Buddha. Here also are two rivers, the Œkhardes
and the Bautisos: the former is plainly the Arang or Upper
Jaxartes, the Arg Rut of the Bundehish; the latter is of
especial interest in this connection. It is plainly the Bhadra
of the Buddhist writers, which in their mythical geography is
made to rise on the northern summit of Mount Meru and
flow through Uttara-Kuru, the Otterokorras of Ptolemy, into
the Northern Sea. Bhadra in Sanscrit means auspicious, but
is here merely an euphrasis for Bhotta or Bhotiya, Tibetan, a

ANCIENT TIBET AND FTS FRONTAGERS.
31
name which at once brings it into line with Ptolemy's Bautisos,
while its connection with the Lop basin explains Ptolemy's
position for the people whom he calls Batæ, and places south
of the Aspakaræ (Horse-riders) but north of the Ottorokorras.
The Bautisos, then, which Ptolemy describes as having sources
in the Kasian (Tienshan) Mountains, and in the Ottorokorras,
and bending towards the Emodan, can be no other than the
Tarim of to-day, with its tributary the Cherchen Darya, once
a far more important river than at present.
With the exception of a single passing allusion in Pliny
[vi. 20] to a tribe of Attacori, apricis ab omni norio afflatu
seclusa collibus, I know of but one other allusion to these dwellers
on the northern flank of the great Himalayan range in the
classic writers, and that is in Ammianus [xxiii. 6. 65,66].
Speaking of the basin of Lake Lop, he says:-
"This plain, broken at times by rising grounds and
extensive flats, is watered by two streams of well known
names, flowing through it with gentle current ;-the Echardes
(Arg Rut) and the Bautis. The district varies in nature-here
open, , there interspersed with rising grounds; it produces fruit
in abundance; affording as well pasturage for herds of cattle,
and bearing extensive forests.
"The fertile lands are inhabited by many tribes, of which
we may mention the Alitrophagi (Curd-eaters), the Annibi
(? Abii of Arrian, i.e. Wusuns), the Sizyges (? Salars),
and the Chardi (? Kaoch'e): these are settled in the northern
regions and exposed to the frosts of winter. Then there
are the Rabannæ (Chinese Hwanyas ), the Asmiræ
(Ashmardans, the Shemotana of Yuen Chwang, who lived in
what is now the Takla Makan desert west of Cherchen), and
the Essedones (a Getic tribe, placed here by mistake, and
whose proper place was on the Upper Jaxartes), the most
illustrious of all. To these on the west adjoin the Athagoræ

32
ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
(the Ithaguri of Ptolemy, of whom I shall speak lower down),
and the Aspacara (? equestrian Kurus or simply Horse-
riders) and finally, the Beta (Böds) resting on the southern
summits of the mountains."
:
Leaving out of account here the more northerly tribes,
regarding whom he is hopelessly confused, Ammianus seems
to have had some definite information, however crude,
respecting the more southern peoples along the northern
flank of the Kwenlun range, more especially the three
whom he calls respectively the Asmiræ, the Athagoræ
and the Beta. The Beta of Ammianus must of course
be identified with the Bâte of Ptolemy, and these with
the native Böd, the Bhotiya people of the Indian writers,
to whose connections I shall return later on. The Asmiræ
are, however, worthy of separate mention, as at one time
they occupied a prominent position in the history of Eastern
Asia. They are mentioned in the Han Shu [chap. xcvi]
as Chemöt:-
"Chemöt lay 720 li to the west of Shenshen
(Cherchen); it is a dependent state under a marquis assisted
by a right and left general. On the north-west it reaches
to Tuhu (Tangut), from which its capital is 2,258 li distant:
northward it extends to Weili and south to lesser Yarkand,
which is about three days' journey distant.
It produces
grapes and other fruits, and westwards communicates with
Tsing-tsüt (Dardistan) distant some 2,000 li."
According to the monk Yuen Chwang the Sanscrit name
of the place was Che-mo-t'o-na K, which we may
transcribe as Akshmardana, but locally it seems to have been
known as Ashmar or Ashmarda, whence the Asmiræa of
Ptolemy, the Asmiræ of Ammianus, and the Chemöt of
the Han Shu. In the version which Julien translated we
read:-

ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
33
"Leaving Tuholo (Sorghul) we travel about 600 li
towards the east and arrive at the country of Akshmardana,
otherwise known as Nimo."
So says Julien, but there is apparently a typographical
error in the text, simple enough but which has rendered the
passage impossible to recognise in the light of recent travels.
The transcriber used the characters, which Julien
rendered Ni-mo; but these I take it were intended for the
very similar i.e. Che(k)-möt, so that we arrive at the
identical sound which appears in the Han Shu. The walls of
the city, he tells us, were very high, but even in his days it
was deserted. The place was clearly that known to the
Persians as Machin, which afterwards the Mohammedan writers
came to confound with China (Chin). A late author, Sadik
Isfahani, who lived after the Yuen dynasty thus referred to it:-
"Machin, a considerable region near Chin; it derives
its name from Machin the son of Japhet, the son of Noah,
on whom be peace! The chief city of Machin is called
Tanktash, i.e. Place of stones,' and this country is
situated in the first and second climates."
Passing Ashmarda and going towards the north-east the
monk arrived at the old kingdom of Napopo, plainly intended
for Navapur ("Newtown") the Sanscrit name of the place
formerly known as the country of Leolan. As there is no
question about Leolan being represented by the site of the
present Cherchen, we may confidently place Ashmarda
somewhat more northerly than Khoten on the bank of the
Keriya river, and it is noteworthy that in this very position
Dr. Aurel Stein in his excavations amidst the ancient cities
of this district [Sand-buried Ruins of Khotan, chap. xx]
discovered the sites of one or more towns, exhibiting in their
ruins the traces of a highly advanced civilisation during the
early centuries of the present era.

34
ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
The last of these three peoples, to whom I have specially
alluded, are the Athagoræ of Ammianus, in whom we cannot
fail to see the Ithaguri of Ptolemy and the Attacori of Pliny.
Ptolemy's Ithaguri and Ottorokorræ fall thus into line: they
are simply the Greek renderings of the Adhara-Kurus and
Uttara-Kurus respectively-the Lower and Upper Kurus of
the Indian Sanscrit writers. Ptolemy says of them [vi. 16] :-
"By these up to the Kasian Mountains (T'ien Shan) are the
Issedons, a powerful tribe, and more easterly the Throani (people
of Shenshen or Cherchen), and then beside them the Ithaguri."
There can be but little doubt from this short description
in fixing the position of these Lower Kurus as ranging from
Cherchen eastwards along the northern flanks of the Altyn
Tagh eastwards to Shacheo and its neighbourhood; and here
the Heo-Han Shu places contemporaneously the Si Kiang.
According to the genius of the old language we must see in the
final ng the remains of an older 7, and recognise the identity of
the two-Kiangs and Kurus. The initial syllable Si we shall
see in another and more easily recognisable form lower down.
These Kiang or Kurus in both Indian and Chinese lore
have a long history, which in both cases goes far back into the
ages of Myth. By most historians and ethnographers who
have essayed to write about these regions, these Kiang of the
Chinese authors have been classed as Tibetans; this is really
putting the cart before the horse. It is true that the Tibetans
of modern times are largely of Kiang strain, but prior to the
fourth century the two peoples existed independently, and are
of absolutely different family, and their erroneous classification
under the one head has placed almost insurmountable
difficulties in the way of a
proper comprehension of
both Chinese and Tibetan history. There has, it is true, been
a large admixture of blood, but even in modern times the
main element in the people of Tibet is not Kiang but Böd.

ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
35
According to the Indian myth, supported by persistent
tradition, the Kurus belonged to the Lunar Race, and their
earliest seat was the country of Uttara-Kuru beyond the
northernmost range of the Himalayas. This formed one of
the "Nine Continents" of primitive Indian tradition, and is
described as a realm of eternal bliss: through it flowed the
Bhadra, the sacred river, which, rising on the summit of the
holy mountain of Meru, flowed through Uttara-Kuru into the
great Northern Ocean. This legend, of course, lay at the
foundation of Ptolemy's geography of Serica, and largely
affected the medieval conceptions of Central Asia. The
Indian name of the river-Bhadra (the "Auspicious")-has
generally been accepted as a euphemism for Bhotiya, the
Böd River, agreeing thus with Ptolemy's name of the
Bautisos, Bhotta being the ordinary Sanscrit appellation of
the country.
According to the ancient Indian myth these Kurus were
not Aryas, that is to say were not descendants of Airya,
and so did not belong to the Solar Race. In the old
Iranian cosmogony Feridun (Thraêtaona, the Vedic Traitona)
had three sons, respectively Çairima, Tuirya and Airya,
the eponyms of the Çairimyans (Sauromats), Tuiryans
(Turanians), i.e. the ancient inhabitants of the Pamirs and
the basin of Eastern Turkestan, and the Aryans (these last
forming, however, only one of the many families comprised by
modern ethnologists under the general term Aryan). As
Feridun is always in the Iranian legend the " Athwyan,"
i.e. the descendant of Athwya, I have suggested the term
Athwyan to cover the entire of that section of the blond race
now roughly known as Aryan, and would reserve the latter
term for the first stream of the immigrants into India some
eighteen centuries B.C. and their immediate relations, especially.
the Iranians and the Salyans or Hellenes. We find then a

36
ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
definite place for the Turanians, as Kurus, Yâdavas, etc., whose
former home was along the eastern flanks of the Pamirs, where,
too, many of them survived well into the historical epoch.
Strabo calls one of the satrapies taken from Eukratides
Toriwa, Toptova, and we find the same elements in the name
given to Yarkand in the Shiki,-Tayuen (i.e. Toyar). The
old Chinese histories give the names of many other peoples in
this region, and the greater number of these we can identify
with names handed down from other sources, Indian and
Greek-the Wusun (Greek Asii or Asiani, later known as
"White Huns" in contradistinction to the Hunni, Hunns
par excellence); the Tahia (Tokhari of Strabo); the Hukri(t)s
of the Shiki (afterwards known as Wigurs), etc. So
popular tradition quoted by Yule made Tashkurgan to have
been founded by Afrasyab himself, the king of Turan; and
here in the old story, after his great defeat at the hands of the
hero Sam, he consented to confine his people. In Indian lore
these folk, whose original home was in what is to-day called
Eastern Turkestan, bore, in contrast to their brethren of
supposed purer blood the Solar, the distinguishing title of
Chandra Vança, or the Lunar Race. Of this strain the two
most distinguished eponyms were Kuru, the ancestor of the
Kauravas, and Pandu, father of the Pândavas, whose
internecine wars form the main subject of the great Indian
epic poem, the Mahabharata. In it Yayati, the fifth
in descent from Soma (the Moon), had two sons, Yadu and
Puru, and these became respectively the eponymic ancestors
of the two great "Lunar" races, the Yâdavas and the
Pauravas. Of the former line the most distinguished
descendant was Krishna, the early Indian god of agriculture.
Of the line of the latter come first Kuru, whose descendants
* By most ethnologists the Turanians have been confounded with the
Turks. The Turks, as their legends, when analysed, will show, were only on
one side Turanian, the other element being really Oghuz.

ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
37
occupied the plain of the Jumna river, called after him
Eurukshetra (the "Field of the Kurus"). The crown was in
direct descent to have passed to Pandu, a distant descendant,
but he being considered disqualified it was given to his brother
Dhritarastra. Pandu accepted the position, but after his death
his sons claimed the kingdom, and this claim brought about
the great war which forms the burden of the Great Epic
of India. With the Indian story we are not concerned,
but these tribes occupy in ancient Chinese lore a very
important position. Curiously enough, in the characters used
by Ssema Ts'ien in his great history, the Shiki, to represent
the original branch of the Yâdavas who did not join in the
Indian Immigration, the Yueh-ti ("Moon-Family") we have
the exact reproduction of the Indian term Chandra-Vança,
while the pronunciation of the name "Yueh-ti" is as exact a
travesty of the pronunciation of the Indian name of Yâdava
as the Chinese language was capable of.
This is, however, not the only connection we find with
these Yadavas in ancient Chinese literature. In the Shi King
[III. i. 7] we find them attacking the Immigrants of Cheo on
their long and weary road to China. They are here called
Mats, or more correctly Madhs, a name closely associated with
these same Yadavas in India, no less than three of the chiefs
of the line bearing the name Madhu. Madhu in Sanscrit means
honey, and curiously enough the Chinese, in Cantonese still
pronounced mat, has the same meaning. The ballad proceeds:―
Thus spake the Gods on High "Wan wang!
Fear not to grasp the work; nor quail;
Let not your pity spare; be strong;
Strive each the goal to scale !
6
The Madhs their disobedience prove,
And daring our bright arms oppose,
On Yuan their hostile forces inove."
Fierce in his wrath our king uprose,
Quickly his armies raised, and now
In vain his arms the foes withstand.
Thus he from ruin saved our Cheo,
And honour brought our sacred land.

38
ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
The succeeding stanza describes the siege and capture of
the great stronghold of the Madhs; in the old ballad it is
called Ts'ung-yung, which we can have little difficulty in
identifying with the Leo-lan of the Shiki, afterwards rendered
by the characters Shen-shen in the Heo Han Shu.
There is little doubt that the name must therefore have been
Dardar, or something closely akin. From all the indications
the site must have been that of the modern village of
Cherchen on the Cherchen Darya. Now and then some
object of antiquity turns up to mark the site as once occupied
by an important city, but it is now at best an oasis in the
middle of the howling desert of the Takla makan.
On Ts'ungyung's walls our engines ply-
Ts'ungyung the fair-the wide renowned
Worsted and wan its burghers fly,
Or captives sad in fetters bound,
Gracing our solemn feast appear.
Crushed 'neath our arms in deadly fray,
No haughty challenge meets our ear;
Nobly our king has won the day,
Nor recreant foes his will gainsay.
In the Tso chwen attached to the Ch'un t'siu [XI. iv]
the name is given more at length than in the Shi as Mat-su,
the latter syllable standing probably for dal, so that the full
name of the tribe seems to have been Madhal, and this will
account for the name as known to the Byzantine Greeks of
Hephthal or 'Epahirat which appears in Procopius.
Whatever the cause, we hear but little for centuries of
Madh; there is a story of a quarrel between King Kung of
Chao about 1000 B.C. with the ruler of Madh over three
ladies, the result of which was that Madh was "extinguished."
The story is, however, entirely apochryphal in the 8th
century B.C. Cheo itself was captured and destroyed at the
hands of the Hiung Nu, and its people forced to remove to
the east-to Lok in Honan-so that intercourse with the

ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
39
states of Turkestan was completely cut off, and till the time
of the early Hans the history of these regions is a perfect
blank. One doubtful allusion to these people seems to occur
in the minor Ballads. Shi [I. iv. 4] sings [the translation is
free]:-
Whither away my winsome lad?
To pluck yon cherries down by Madh.
But tell me, youth, why challenge fate;
What charmer tempts to danger's gate?
"Tis Mang, of Kiang's clan the pride;
To-day we meet by Sangchung's side.
With her no treach'rous foe I fear,
As K'i's steep banks we deftly clear.
As we shall see afterwards, the Yadavas in Indian as well
as Chinese lore had the reputation of being a beautiful as well
as pleasure-loving race.
With the accession of the house of Han and the com-
mencement of the struggle for empire with the Turkish Hiung
Nu, we find frequent allusions to these Yâdavas, now known
under the name of Yueh-ti, literally the "Lunar Race," and
so bearing out the Indian myth. About 209 B.C. the Shenyu
Maotun (probably to be pronounced Mughur), the greatest of
his race, had established his rule from Sughd to the confines
of Kansu. He found occupying the then comparatively
fertile country of Eastern Turkestan several tribes of cognate
race, standing on a high level of civilisation, well featured and
light complexioned: I quote from the CXth chapter of the
Shi Ki-
"At this period the Tunghu were formidable and the
Yuehti numerous. The Shenyu of the Hiung Nu was named
Teoman (Demur or Timur): this latter having met with a
reverse at the hands of T'sin fled northwards, but a few years
after, T'sin's great general having died and the conquered states
rising in rebellion, China was thrown into a state of confusion,
and the garrisons left by T'sin all disappeared. The Hiung

40
ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
Nu, finding no opposition, gradually encroached and again
crossed the Ho advancing up to the Stockades."
apace
. After
some time Teoman died, and was succeeded by Maotun, the
greatest of the race, under whom the Hiung empire grew
He subjugated," the story goes on to relate,
"the Fanyu, who occupied the territory, now desert,
. between Lake Lop and Shacheo; the Kütshe (whom I am
unable to trace), the Tinglings (who still under the
name of Salars survive, but far removed from their original
seats, in the neighbourhood of Sining), and the Lukwen
and Sinlai (neither of whom I can identify).
The empire of the Hiung Nu seems at this period to
have stretched from the Upper Jaxartes to the north of
Shansi and from Karashahr to the slopes of the Altais;
but their Shenyu was dreaming of still further conquests.
Accordingly in the year 178 B.C. he addressed a letter to
China:-
"The Supreme Shenyu, by the Grace of Heaven, to the
Hwangti; sends greeting-Formerly there existed between
us a treaty of peace, and our people have lived in harmony.
Some time since the officers in charge of the Marches have
encroached and used insulting language towards the Right
Yen Wang, which he bore without rejoinder. More recently
it has become a matter of anxious deliberation between him
and Nansse, Marquess of Lu, how best a breach of the peace
can be avoided and the fraternal intercourse of the two
peoples preserved, and on more than one occasion letters
have passed with Your Majesty. Lately I despatched an
envoy, but he has not returned nor have I received any
communication; while some of the lower officials have
committed breaches of the agreement, and attacking the
Right Yen Wang have forced him into the western regions,
where he was attacked by the Yuehti.

ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
41
"Heaven, however, was propitious to our arms; our
forces were well found, our cavalry brave and powerful, and
in the end we totally defeated the Yuehti, carrying fire and
sword through their lands and pacifying the country up to
Leolan.
"[In consequence of our success] the Wusun, the
Huk (r)it and the neighbouring peoples, to the
number of six and twenty, have joined our confederacy and
all the bow-bearing nations are now united as one family.
"Having now pacified all the northern regions, it is our
earnest wish that an end should be put to hostilities and
that there should be no more quarrelings, so that we may
send our horses to pasture, and enjoy peace at home as in the
old times;-that our young men may grow up to manhood,
our old may live in peace, and ease and harmony prevail
from age to age."
Such is the only contemporary, or nearly contemporary,
record we possess of one of those remarkable ethnic migrations
which have left their permanent records on the modern
history of Asia, and whose echoes are still to be heard even
in far distant Europe. So complete was the defeat that the
Yuehti broke up their homes and emigrated in mass; the
larger section crossed the watershed between the Lop basin
and the Oxus and poured into Baktria, then under the rule
of the successors of Diodotus, while the rest in small bodies
made their way to the highlands of northern Tibet, with the
older inhabitants of which they in time became intermingled,
-a strain which shows itself to the present day.
Strabo [XI. viii. 2] almost incidentally mentions this
movement as an event so well known that it only required to
be alluded to. "Most of the Skythians beginning from the
Caspian Sea are called Dahæ Skythæ, and those situated
more towards the east Massagetæ and Sacæ." There is a

42
ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
good deal more in this short sentence than meets the eye at
the first glance. First with regard to the people called here
Dahæ, there seems in my mind little doubt that they are the
same as the Daci of the Romans, and perhaps the Tokhari
of our author. Strabo states truly that the Massagetæ and
Saka (more correctly Çakæ, the difference being important),
were eastern tribes: but I have shown elsewhere that these
eastern tribes were Getic, and so belonged to the "Platt"
type, so that the Dakhæ of the more western people naturally
became the Tokhars of the eastern. The Massa-Getæ in this
case stand for Gothic Midya-Getæ, and through Persian
influence, they having a habit of sibilating their gutturals,
Getæ turned into Çakæ: the Greek Skyth seems to be only
a modification of the same word.
This slight explanation will enable us to better understand
Strabo's next sentence :-"The best known tribes are those
who deprived the Greeks of Baktriana, the Asii (or) Pasiani,
the Tokhari, and the Sakarauli, who came from the conntry
on the other side of the Jaxartes opposite the Çake and
S(C)ogdiani." All these tribes were well known to the
Chinese, and all are described at length in the Han historians.
There is little doubt that Strabo intended to write Asii or
Pasiani, the initial p standing for v, and the people meant
being the Getic tribe called by the Chinese Wusun
The Tokhars must equally plainly be identified with the Tahia
, whom the Yuehti actually met on the Upper Oxus. The
S(C)akarauli we may identify safely with the Ægle of
Herodotus [III, 92], and these with the Huk(r)its of Ssema
T'sien, of whom I have spoken above: these last later on
became the Wigurs of the Wei and subsequent dynasties.
The facts of the migration are simple, but have been sadly
misinterpreted by the French writers of the eighteenth
century, with whom, I am sorry to add, in this instance I

ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
43
have to associate Julien. All we learn from Ssema is that
having crossed the mountains (apparently by Tashkurgan)
the Yuehti met with a cognate race, the Tahia (Tokhars)
whom they defeated; as immediately afterwards we find the
two living in amity, the Yuehti assuming the lead, we may
conclude that the two recognised the claims of kindred at
all events Ssema tells us that all the peoples hereabouts spoke
cognate languages and were mutually intelligible.
The result of this movement was that the tribes established
a new empire. According to the scant notices which occur
in the Heo Han Shu these immigrants were divided into five
separate tribes, and amongst these there seems to have been
some fighting. At all events one of the tribes who called
themselves the Kwei Shwang, or Kweisiang overcame
the other four, and established themselves at what nowadays
is known as Shahr-i-sebz (City of Greenery) but which for-
merly was called Kesh, in the basin of the Upper Oxus, south
of Samarkand. From the name of the city, or more likely
that of the tribe, the kingdom came to be called Koshano,
under which name it appears on the so-called Indo-Skythic
coins. According to the Chinese author the king's name
was Kitolo, and as Yule in his introduction to Wood's
Journey, speaks of an Ephthalite called Katulphus, we may
presume that it was something like Cadwulf or Cædhlef
Gothic Gutleaf. At all events, he took the opportunity of
a disturbance in Afghanistan to cross the Hindukush, and
pour down on Kao-fu (Kabul), where he established a
powerful empire, which under the name of the Ephthalite,
or Indo-Skythic Kingdom, endured till the latter half of
the 6th century.
But alongside these Yuehti or Yâdavas, who, as we have
seen, really played no inconsiderable part in the history of the
world, occurred another tribe, also belonging to the Lunar

44
ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
Race, and of whom I have already spoken [see p. 34]. To
the Indians this people was known as the Kurus, to the
Chinese as Kiang, both, however, at one time of identical
pronunciation. They enter largely into ancient Chinese myth.
The Shuntien [Shu, II. i. 12] sings :-
"He (Shun) consigned the Kung-kung (Karkotas ?) to the Dark Land;
Enclosed Hwan-teo (Vritra) in the T'sung Shan;
Shut up the Sammiao (Çambars) in Sam-wei (Çambu-Dwipa ?);
Confined the K'wan (Ghaurs?) to Yü Shan (mountains of Dardistan ?)"
In the Ta Yu Mu [Shu, II. ii. 20] we are told :-
"The Gods said: 'See, Yu!
There remains Miao.
Assemble the princes;
Order out the armies,
Draw up the troops,
So each hear Our command '-
Restless are these Mino;
Unsettled, regardless of authority;
Insolent, self-vaunting;
False and without honour."
The rhythmical portion of the Yu Kung [Shu, I. iii. 78]
makes but one allusion to these tribes: but it is important, as
it connects them clearly with the extreme West and the Lop
Nor basin-
Sam-wei was settled, (and)
The Sammiao ordered.
In the older lore of the Chinese these Sammiao always
are made to be the direct ancestors of the Kiang tribes, who
in turn become the predecessors of the Tanguts of later
history. In the Shi-ki [chap. xxvi, the Li Shu they
are called the Kiuli (Can. Kaulai), which points
unmistakeably to Kuru. The LXXVIIth chapter of the Heo
Han Shu begins :-"The Si Kiang originally sprung from
the Sammiao; their surname was Kiang, and their
country was situated in the Nan-Yok (Southern Mountain,

ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
45
the Altyn Tagh of Prejevalsky). When Shun drove away
the four evil-doers they escaped to Sam-wei (Cambu-dwipa ?).
The land of the Kiangs lies S.W. of Hokwan and adjoins
Siehchi." This was somewhere west of Shacheo in
the basin of Lop Nor.
Hardly more tangible are the glimpses we obtain of these
ancient tribes in Indian lore. Here too Samvarna is the
father of Kuru, himself the tribal eponym, but Samvarna is
hardly more than a name; he was driven from his home and
took refuge amongst the reeds of the Indus, and this possibly
is a faint recollection of the Immigration of the Kurus into
India, where they settled on the plain of the Jumna, which
after them came to be called the Kurukshetra ("Field of
Kuru"). So a faint echo of the same movement is preserved
in the myth of Çambara, the Daitya, enemy to gods and men,
the demon of drought and the special opponent of Indra, who
destroyed his castles and who was eventually killed by Kama.
The connection with drought is evidently but a last faint
memory of the rainless country north of the Himalayas,
which once formed the home of the Çambaras. The same
name scarcely altered we find as Çavaras, applied to one of
the wilder tribes of the Himalayas, not improbably one of
the branches of those Miaos driven by the early Chinese to
the mountains.
But we are here in the land of myth, pure and simple.
In Hwangti's time, says the story [Li Shu, 1.c.], "The
common people had faith; the spirits, intelligence and
ability. Spirits and men were each perfect in their several
spheres, each respecting the other without interference;
evil and misfortune did not trouble them. But when Shaohao
succeeded misfortunes arose; the Kaulai introduced confusion,
and the relations of spirits and people were confused." So
when in Indian lore the Çavaras become with the demon
7

46
ANOIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
Vritra (Hwanteo), the two dogs of Yama, we are in face of the
wide Central-Asian myth of the gates of Hades guarded by
its two dogs, who in the far distant Greece become respectively
Kerberos and Orthros.
We have few records of what happened in the far west of
China during the following centuries, but when, as above
related, the great Khan Maotun had driven out the Yuehti,
the Kiang took refuge in the new territory of Lungsi,
comprising the districts between the present Lancheo and
Shacheo. On the accession of the emperor Wu [140 B.C.]
he proceeded to develop this country and intersect it with
roads in order to carry out of his great scheme of opening
out to China the commerce of the the west, and this eventually
led to hostilities. The Kiang then, the Heo Han Shu tells us,
on the south came up to Shuk (Ssech'wan) and China, and
were limitrophes of the Outer Man-I; to their north-west lay
Shenshen (Cherchen) and Kusse (Gash). They have seldom
fixed abodes and little cultivated land, rearing cattle and
wandering about as grass and water serve. The father has
only his personal name, but the children for ten or twelve
generations adopt the mother's clan name. Marriage amongst
them is by mutual consent, and if the father die his eldest
brother takes over and marries the wife; so, adds the book,
there are no widows nor orphans. Their chiefs are elected
from certain families; they are early accustomed to hardships
and are very jealous of their personal rights.
Although these tribes were thus distinctly nomadic they
belonged to the same race as their settled neighbours in
Shenshen and Ashmardan and apparently spoke the same
language; indeed Yuehti and Kiang fade into one another by
almost imperceptible degrees. Continually made the sport of
circumstances, and exposed on either side to hostile attacks
from their two great enemies, China and the Hiung Nu, they

ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
47
became gradually lower and lower in the scale of civilisation,
and lost practically all the culture that they once possessed;
physically too these races had deteriorated through admixture
of blood, and we hear no more from the Chinese historians of
any indication that they differed in personal appearance or in
their stage of culture from the surrounding peoples.
The second Han Empire [A. D. 25-220] never rose to the
same power nor attained the same stage of civilisation as its
predecessor; and, except partially during the lifetime of its
great captain, Panch'ao, never recovered its former position
in the western states. Under these conditions the Kiang
peoples gradually increased in power: and when finally the
Empire fell to pieces and China reverted to the position of a
loose congeries of petty kingdoms, the time came for the
expansion of these Kiang, who now became under various tribal
names the preponderating power in the Lop Nor countries, their
influence extending as far as the Yellow River, including the
Ordos country. This brought them in contact with another of
the great ethnic divisions of Eastern Asia, the Sienpi, or
Ushwar, under which we must include many of the tribes
loosely denominated Tungusic.
We meet with this people very early in Chinese history
as Tung Hu, or Eastern Hu, a name but doubtfully connected
with that of Tunguz, principally favoured by Russian
ethnographers. There was in the early days of the Hans a
great feud between them and the Turkish people on their
western flank known as the Hiung Nu. Though the great
Shenyu of the latter, Maotun, inflicted on them many defeats,
he never succeeded in more than temporarily occupying their
territory, and never broke
This territory
their solidarity.
up
in the main consisted in the two great districts called by the
Chinese Liao, East and West, but which by themselves seems
to have been known as Sira, and which reached west to the

48
ANOIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
Hingan mountains and the eastern flanks of the Yin shan.
In earlier times the tribes must have extended still further to
the west, and in 660 B.C. we find the state of Tsin, roughly
Shansi, raising a large army to get rid of these people, then
occupying a considerable space between Shansi and Pechili.
The particular tribe is denominated Kaolok, apparently
Karlok, and to be found still existing in the Goloks, a robber
tribe who wander about the upper waters of the Yellow River
south of Tsaidam, and who are a source of continual danger
to caravans passing from Sungp'an to Tibet. The tribe was
then so powerful that more cautious councils prevailed, and
subsequently on its having made an attack itself and been
defeated, the general in command feared to follow up his
victory lest it should lead to a general rising of the tribes.
Towards the end of the Ts'in dynasty these tribes, by a process
in all ages usual in Asia, seem to have thrown in their lot
with the rising power of Maotun, and to have adopted the
general name of Jung, Nirun, and become amalgamated with
the Hiung Nu, now the most prominent power in Eastern
Asia. This association continued till, with the rise of the
Kiangs in the third century, we find a new amalgamation, and
no less than 150 tribes in Tibet and along its frontier classed
as belonging to the Kiang, besides a large number in the
Alashan districts, called in the Wei Shu the T'angch'ang, i.e.
Dsung gar, Kiang. These last afterwards came to be known
as the Tanghiang or T'anghiang, and this name
with the addition of the Mongol plural was transformed into
the Tangut of Marco Polo, the native name of the state called
in Chinese Si Hya.
Another people, also belonging to the same Ushwar,
or Sienpi race, we find rising into prominence about the same
period, called in the Wei Shu [chap. ci] the T'ukuhwan,
or Tukufan who early in the fourth century,

ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
49
passing along the flanks of the Yin shan, established themselves
about the Kokonor, where we find them in constant hostilities
with the Kiangs. Apparently pressed by these, some of
the Kiang tribes occupying the eastern slopes of Tibet were
forced on to the aboriginal peoples, still paramount in the
valley of the Tsangpu or Upper Brahmaputra, about the
middle of the sixth century. These they easily conquered,
and their chief adopted the title, in Chinese, of Dzan-pu.-So
it is written by Klaproth, who is my authority for this
translation from the Tang Shu.-This was the foundation
of the first Tibetan Kingdom. The word rendered Dzan-pu
is seemingly the Tibetan Gyalpo, king, still surviving in
the titles of the Dalai Lama. The new king fixed his
capital on the banks of the Ki-pu ch'wan, otherwise the
Losa ch'wan, the Kyi chu of to-day. Towards the end
of the century, under his successor, called in the Chinese
Lundzan-so Lungdzan, the frontiers were advanced up to
the borders of Kashmir, and an opportunity presented of
communicating with the heads of the Buddhist Church there
established; this opportunity was availed of by his successor,
called in Chinese Yidzund Lungdzan, who on his succession
found himself sovereign of a compact and respected state,
but one still lacking the prescription of ancient tradition.
Thus was founded the Tibetan kingdom.
We must dismiss as utterly unfounded the statements
made by some of the early writers on Chinese history of
the early development of a Tibetan power, and its supposed
wars with China; the cause of the blunder will be explained
lower down, and I only allude to it here as an instance
of the besetting sin of nearly all our supposed authorities
on China and Chinese affairs of invariably copying from
their predecessors without taking the trouble of verifying
for themselves their statements of supposed facts. An ancient

50
ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
legend still current amongst the Tibetans themselves ascribes
their origin to the marriage of a monkey with a female
demon of the mountains, and even so well-informed an
authority as Lieut.-Col. Waddell sees in this belief an
occasion for merriment. It is really one of the numerous
animal myths current in Asia, highly prized by the people
themselves, and useful to the ethnologist as throwing light,
otherwise unattainable, on their early history and connections.
One of the most marked of these is the wolf legend of
the Getic tribes, which we can trace wherever that race
has left its remains; in Hyrkania, the Iranian Vehrkâna,
or Wolf country, as well as in the style of the regal race
of the Parthians, Arsakes for Vehrk-isk-a, etc.
The ancient Wusuns, as well as the modern Tibetans,
had the same legend of their monkey descent, and in their
case it is known to have had its origin in their faces,
well covered with tawny beards, which in the eyes of the
beardless nations around seemed to betoken relationship with
the long-haired tawny apes who still exist in numbers
on the flanks of the Tibetan highlands. Now the Kiangs
who overran Tibet, and who still form a not inconsiderable
element in the population [vid. p. 49 sup.] were originally
closely related to these Wusuns, so that the myth thus
explains itself, and simply implies what we have been able
to gather from other sources, that the Tibetan is of mixed
parentage, partly Kiang and partly descended from the
oboriginal Böds, a fact remarked by all competent observers,
[see Rockhill's Land of Lamas, p. 243 and Waddell's Hlassa
and its Mysteries, p. 346].
But to return to our immediate history, the sovereign
called in the Chinese history Yidzung Lungdzan is in the
Mongol account designated Srongdzangambyo, the form
acknowledged by modern writers on Tibet. According to

ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
51
the Chinese story he sent an envoy to China acknowledging
the suzerainty of the Empire, and presenting "tribute";
the emperor was so flattered that he sent an embassy in
return bearing presents: Srongdzan Gambyo then demanded
a Chinese princess in marriage, which was at first refused, but
after a show of hostilities finally agreed to. The princess
must have found her new husband already favourably
disposed towards Buddhism politically, and threw in her
influence personally, with the result that he himself became a
pious student of the religion; a Nepalese lady whom he
also married threw in her influence in the same cause.
Notwithstanding his acceptance of the Doctrine we find
him still carrying on wars with his neighbours north and
south, in both cases apparently to his advantage.
This
His grandson and successor, called by the Chinese
Kilipabu?, recalling the ancient grudge of his ancestors
against that people, made war on the T'ukuhwans and utterly
defeated them, compelling their chief to take refuge in
China, after which we hear no more of them as a power.
This success inflamed his ambition, and entering into an
alliance with Khotan he attacked the king of Kuchar, a
petty state lying near the north bank of the Tarim. The
allies took the town of Puhwan, probably Aksu, and pretended
to a general overlordship over the Tarim countries.
excited the jealousy of China, who in consequence sent
into these regions a viceroy charged to take under his
protection the four military districts of Kweitse (Kuchar),
Yutien (Khotan), Yenki (Karashahr), and Shuli (the ancient
Sulak, northern Pamir); making the usual Chinese tactical
blunder, common in all ages, the Chinese commanders divided
their forces, and the Tibetans falling on them in the Kokonor
district easily defeated them. These were the days of the
Khalifs, and we need not be surprised that the encroaching

9
52
ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
Mohammedans made overtures to the puissant Tibetans ; little,
however, came of these victories, which were little more
than raids, and practically, notwithstanding the asseverations
of half-informed historians, the Tibetans never acquired a
foothold in the Tarim basin. On the Chinese frontier the
Tibetans were for a time more successful, and actually occupied
portions of the empire. On one occasion [in 763] they
actually captured the Capital (Changan) and burnt the palace:
on the approach of a Chinese army they, however, retired.
This war continued for many years longer, but at last, in
821 or 793, both sides being utterly exhausted, they
determined to make peace: China yielded up all territory
west of the Tao and Min rivers, but otherwise things
remained as they were. This treaty is recorded on a tablet
still in existence in Hlassa in front of the great Buddhist
cathedral of the Jokang.
As it is not my object to write a history of Tibet
further than has been necessary to explain its very complicated
ethnology, I have confined myself to a very brief outline,
and only so far so as was necessary for the purpose.
I have already [p. 50] spoken of the female demon
of the mountains, who according to the Tibetans them-
selves represented the Böd (or aboriginal) element in the
population. These Böds are apparently sprung from the
more ancient stock of the Indo-Chinese peninsula, to whom
elsewhere I have given the name of Pareæan, a strain which
besides forms the understratum of the Chinese themselves.
The overlying races in Tibet, in contradistinction to China,
where they are Aryas, are rather Turanian, using these two
terms as I have explained earlier [p. 36]. The distinction
probably accounts in some measure for the different characters
of the two peoples. At all events the history of the two
countries up to the period of the Chinese ascendency was quite

ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
53
distinct and separate, and the characters and instincts of the
two peoples utterly unlike and in most particulars almost
contrary the one to the other.
Before closing this paper I must point out that there is
no foundation in fact for Klaproth's use of the word Tibetan
as an ethnic term. Tibetan is no doubt a well marked
language, distinct on the one side from the peculiarly
monosyllabic speech of China and on the other from the
inflected polysyllabic Sanscritic languages of India. The
time has, probably, not arrived to more precisely define it;
but on a somewhat superficial examination it does not bear
the impress of being of any great antiquity, and will probably
be found, like the people themselves, to owe its peculiarities to
many different sources. Klaproth was the first who attempted
to place these theories of a Tibetan race on any scientific
basis. He thus [Tableaux Historiques de l'Asie, p. 130]
introduces the subject :-
"According to the few notices we find in ancient Chinese
works, it appears that the Tibetans occupied in high antiquity
the western part of China bounded on the south by the
Nanling (Altyn Tagh), which separates the southern provinces
from the rest of the Empire. Others stretched to the east up
to the Siang, which flows through the Hukwang and falls
into the Tungt'ing Lake. Some tribes of similar, origin were
to be found even in the mountains of Honan; and it was on
the banks of this river that the Tibetan people called the three
Miao had their homes some thirty centuries B.C., or at the
period of the arrival of the first Chinese colonies who
descended from the Kwenlun mountains."
I have given this extract literally and at some length
because with the usual habit with Chinese scholars of always
repeating the statements of their predecessors, however false
and unfounded, it has been repeated so frequently as to have
8

54
ANCIENT TIBET AND ITS FRONTAGERS.
become practically an article of faith. As a fact, Klaproth's
Geography and Fnography here were both at fault, and the
result has been . entire falsification of not only the early
history of Tibet but an entire misconception of the story of
Eastern Asia, especially with regard to the Turanian inhabitants.
I have explained above the story of the Çammiao and their
connection with the Kiang or Kurus; it was these Kurus
who many centuries afterwards, in fact in the fifth century
of the present era, for the first time came in contact with the
native tribes inhabiting Tibet. These they conquered, and
as a result established at Hlassa the first Tibetan state. It
was not Tibet nor Tibetans, then, but the Turanian tribe of
the Kiang or Kuru who in the early centuries of our era
proved so formidable competitors with the Hans for the
possession of the empire of Eastern Asia. The error is akin
to attributing to the ancient Britons the French wars of
Edward III and Henry V.