STANDARD WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
OF THE CH'IN
DYNASTY.
By Rev. F. H. CHALFANT.
In the Doctrine of the Mean occurs the precept, "To no
one but the Emperor does it belong to order ceremonies,
to fix measures and to determine characters."
While the founder of the Ch'in dynasty is not noted
for reverence for the sages, it seems that he at least
accepted as his prerogative the right to fix measures. In
spite of his cruelty and despotic rule, he was a radical
reformer, and we may well regret that the standard
weights and measures enacted by Shih Huang-ti (*)
have not survived to the present day, at least in the matter
of their uniformity. This effort to regulate and unify the
diverse standards of the several states amalgamated by the
founder of the Ch'in dynasty occurred in the 26th year of
his reign, when he had himself proclaimed Czar of all the
Chinas [B.C. 221].
While preparing these notes my attention was called to a
paragraph upon this subject by Edouard Chavannes [Mémoires
Historiques, Vol. II, p. 549], who gives a miniature copy and
French translation of the edicts issued by Shih Huang-ti and
his successor Erh Shih Huang-ti () relating to the

22
STANDARD WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
This author
introduction of standard weights and measures.
acknowledges the Chinese work Chin Shih So () as
the source of his information. In 1797 (2nd year of Emp.
Chia Ch'ing) a scholar, Hsueh Shang-kung (), re-edited
these edicts in his excellent treatise on ancient inscriptions,
called by the ponderous name Li Tai Chung Ting I Ch'i Kuan
Shih Fa-t'ieh (E), which may be
rendered "Fac-similes of Inscriptions from Ancient Bells,
Tripods, Libation-cups and Other Vessels." From this I have
carefully transcribed the edicts by the two emperors of Ch'in,
with the corresponding modern Chinese characters as therein
given [see Figs. 1, 2, 3] and append the following translation:-
"In the 26th year, the Emperor, having effected a tranquil
union of all the nobility and black-haired people under
Heaven, assumed the title of Huang-ti [Emperor], and hereby
commands the Ministers Chuang and Kuan to see to the
weights and measures, and, wherever diversity be suspected,
let them be made uniform."
Following this is the edict of the succeeding ruler Erh
Shih "In [this] the first year of our reign we command
our Ministers Ssŭ and Ch'ü Chi to carry into effect the system
of measures devised by Shih Huang-ti. To change the title
and inscription would be to dishonour Shih Huang-ti. Lest
future generations fail to respect his deeds and virtue, we
inscribe this edict. Therefore let it be engraved on the left
[i.e. following the original edict], and let none doubt it-
Ping Yang catty."
The second of these edicts is not the most lucid bit of
Chinese, though the main idea is readily perceived, to
wit, that the Imperial author wishes the credit for
the reform in weights and measures to be given to
his royal father, who initiated it, and does not even
attach his own title to the endorsement of the system, lest
thereby the glory of the originator be dimmed. Let us hope

*兼天下踏入
首大
企
廿六大皇帝畫
天下
IPAD
度量
杏奈舞度量
盡 2皇帝
Fig. 1. (From Hsieh's Ancient Inscriptions.)
者皆
度量則不盪
羼不穩皇帝
Fig. 2. (From Hsieh's Ancient Inscriptions.)
大 安立號 為皇帝
無天下諸侯,首
廿六年皇帝盡并
記者皆明壹之
度量則不壹
制諂丞
皇帝為之者
去疾法度量盡
稱
盛德刻
為之者
始皇帝
故刻左使 毋疑
Fig.3.
刻菇斯之繳
(Modern characters of two inscriptions above.)
* In second inscription (Fig. 2) 殴 occurs for 也

菜
#
PID
HCH
Fig. 4. Outline drawing of 16-catty weight : actual size.

OF THE CH'IN DYNASTY.
23
that this is a redeeming trait in the character of a tyrant who
was so thoroughly hated by his people that they rebelled and
drove him to suicide after a short reign of three years.
The above-cited edicts were engraved upon metal models
of the new weights and measures. Tradition has it that the
foot-rule was also among the authorised standards, though I
have not been able to find any distinct evidence of this. Of
the weights, some were copper, some iron with a copper plate
inlaid for the inscription, and others probably of stone. These
models were distributed among the officers of the realm as
standards to which all commercial weights and measures must
conform.
In 1803 a famous scholar of Yangchow, Juan Yüan
(7) by name, revised the work on inscriptions by Hsueh
Shang-kung, adding sixty-seven transcriptions to the four
hundred and ninety-three of the original treatise.
Among these is an incomplete inscription from a Ch'in
measure, sixteen characters being illegible. Besides the very
different style of writing, the only variation in text is the
substitution of (chieh) "all" for (ché), an enclitic of
somewhat the same meaning. [This occurs in the edict of Erh
Shih Huang-ti, see Figs. 4, 5.] With the characteristic
vagueness of his race, the author fails to state whence these
inscriptions were obtained. We know, however, that several
finds of these old measures have verified the tradition. The
latest, and perhaps the most important find, was at Hsi-Ngan Fu
(Shensi), which was the capital city of the Ch'in Dynasty under
the name Hsien-Yang (). So far as I can ascertain, there
were found three weights and ten measures, besides some
fragments, all in good state of preservation, thanks to the
non-alkaline quality of the earth. By courtesy of the dealer
*One of these is described by Mr. Hackmann in East of Asia, July
1903, p. 183.

24
STANDARD WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
who negotiated the sale of this valuable find, I have obtained
accurate rubbings of most of them with their inscriptions.
Deposited with these was a copy of the edict of Shih
Huang-ti on jade. Of these weights and measures, eight
are in the collection of the Ting family, Huang-hsien,
Shantung; one, the S-catty weight, is in the collection of
a certain Liu Tieh Yün in Peking; and one, the 16-catty
weight, is now in Weihsien, Shantung. By permission
of the owner, I have been permitted to copy and weigh the
last-mentioned specimen [see Fig. 4]. It is 3 inches high
and 4 inches in diameter at the base, and weighs 9 lbs.
3 ounces avoirdupois, or 4,186 kilogrammes. A square hole
has been gouged from the bottom to correct the weight after
casting. The whole convex surface is covered with the
inscription, being that of Shih Huang-ti without the
supplementary edict by his successor. The same is true of all
the specimens of this lot, which proves them to be of the
original issue of Shih Huang-ti [B.C. 221].
The appended table of comparative weights is deduced
from the above-described 16-catty weight. It will be
noticed that these ancient weights are barely half the weight
of the corresponding modern ones.
One Chu ().equals
24 Chu equal 1 Liang ()
(?)
16 Liang,, 1 Chin ()
16 Chin
30 Chin 1 Chün (4)
وو
ג,
4 Chün 1 Tan ()
"
دو
"
0.68+ grammes
16.35+
261.62 +
,, 4,186.00
دو
دو
"
(4.186
kilos.)
)
(7.848 +
" 7,848.75
ود
31,395.00
"
,,(31.395
دو
دو
)
According to the wording of one of the above inscriptions,
some of these weights were on the basis of the Ping Yang
catty (). The precise significance of this I cannot-
give, but presumably the standard weight of that city (now
P'ing-Yang Fu) had some connection with the adopted system.

OF THE CH'IN DYNASTY.
25
It would seem that this excellent reform was annulled
by the overthrow of the Ch'in Dynasty, and chaos in
weights and measures again ensued. It remains for another
Son of Heaven to imitate the worthy example of the Napoleon
of China and give the nation some uniform standards.