Witchcraft in the Chinese Penal Code.
By E. T. Williams.
The practice of witchcraft has characterized all races
of men in the lower stages of culture. It is the logical
outcome of the rudimentary philosophy by which the savage
seeks to account for the mysterious phenomena of life, and
is a necessary step in the progress of humanity towards a
control of the forces of nature and their utilization for the
benefit of mankind.
Dr. Eitel found in the superstition of feng-shui the
rudiments of natural science.¹ It may be said, at least, that
natural science has sprung from the same spirit of inquiry
that has given birth to this pseudo-science. We should look
upon all forms of sorcery and magic as but gropings of the
human mind after the reasons of things, and as bungling
attempts to subdue natural forces to the service of man. We
make a great mistake if we conceive of witchcraft as
originating in intentional imposture. Tylor tells us that
"magic has not its origin in fraud, and seems seldom
practised as an utter imposture. The sorcerer generally
learns his time-honored profession in good faith, and retains
his belief in it more or less from first to last; at once dupe
and cheat, he combines the energy of a believer with the
Feng-shui or the Rudiments of Natural Science in China.
Hongkong Lane, Crawford & Co., 1873.
9

62
WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
cunning of a hypocrite. Had occult science been simply
framed for purposes of deception, mere nonsense would have
answered the purpose, whereas, what we find is an elaborate
and systematic pseudo-science. It is in fact a sincere but
fallacious system of philosophy, evolved by the human
intellect by processes still in great measure intelligible to our
own minds, and it had thus an original standing-ground in
the world." 2
Though witchcraft seems to us to-day so foolish a
superstition, if we look aright, we may find in it the origin
of many of our sciences; the beginnings of meteorology and
astronomy, of physics and chemistry, the commencement of
that movement, indeed, which has given us the steam engine
and the telegraph, the telephone and the electric light, and
which has wrought the still greater miracles of modern
medicine and surgery.
But, while believing thoroughly in the power of
witchcraft, even the primitive man distinguished between the
use of that power for the welfare of men and its employment
to do him injury. When, from the thirteenth to the
seventeenth centuries in Europe the Church manifested such
great zeal in hunting down and punishing witches, it still
permitted the practice of what it called "white magic" for
the cure of sickness or to protect the fields and flocks from
injury by storm or disease. When this occult power was
used, as was believed, to blast the crops, injure the herds, or
bring sickness or other calamity upon men, it was called
black magic," and its employment, unless it might be for
the destruction of the enemies of the tribe or state, was
always forbidden by primitive law, and thus naturally also by
the unenlightened Church of the Middle Ages.
2 Tylor's Primitive Culture, vol. I, p. 134.

WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
63
Nothing but the progress of science, which has given
men a knowledge of the laws in accordance with which the.
forces of nature operate, has ever been able in any land to
dispel the dread of sorcery and witchcraft, and it is no more
than we ought to expect, therefore, to find this fear still
operating with great power in the minds of the Chinese of
to-day, among whom, for the most part, the elements of
science are only just beginning to be known.
It is no less to be expected that the laws of China
should provide the severest penalties for the practice of those
evil arts which are believed capable of securing the aid of
diabolical powers to work injury to the individual or bring
calamity upon the State. This is all the more to be anticipated
in the case of such a code as that of the Ta Ch'ing Dynasty,
which is practically that of the Ming Dynasty, and which
may be said to date in many of its provisions from a very
much earlier period.
We find in
In this expectation we are not disappointed.
the fourth volume of the Code a definition of the Ten Great
Crimes. The fifth of these is called Pu Tao,' which may be
freely translated Inhuman Crimes, and is defined as including
such offences as (a) the murder of three or more persons in
one household who have not been guilty, themselves, of any
capital crime; (b) mayhem; (c) the mutilation of the living
body to obtain certain members or organs for use in witchcraft;
(d) the manufacture of the ku poison, or witch's potion,
keeping it in one's possession, or teaching the art of its prepar-
ation to others; and (e) the employment of incantations and
charms to inflict the curse of the nightmare demon.
In the section of the Code which provides for the
punishment of these crimes a very careful distinction is made
5
3十惡不道。魘魅

64
WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
between ordinary mayhem and the mutilation of the human
body for purposes of witchcraft.6 The one is a crime
originating in enmity and inspired by a desire for revenge;
the other is not prompted by any ill-feeling towards the
uses.
victim, but is committed in the most cold-blooded fashion with
no other object than to secure parts of the body for magical
The full text of the fundamental law relating to this
crime is as follows. The authoritative notes interspersed,
which in the original are printed in smaller type, I have
indicated by placing in parentheses:-
"A principal in the crime of collecting vitality by mutilation of the
human body (no matter whether resulting in the death or the wounding of
the victim) shall be executed by the slicing process, his property, personal
and real, given to the family of the victim, and the wife of such principal,
his sons, and all who dwell in the same house with him, even though
ignorant of the facts, shall be banished for life to a distance of 2,000 li.
(The offence of collecting vitality by mutilating the human body, that is by
taking the ears, eyes, viscera or other parts of the living man or by cutting
off his limbs, may be said to be like the crime of mayhem, but the latter is
done with the object of killing the victim, while the former, though it may
result in the death of the victim, is done with intent to practice magic in
order to delude men, and therefore has a special gravity.) Accomplices
(taking an active part) shall be beheaded. (Their property shall not be
disturbed nor their families subject to banishment. Accessories not taking
active part shall be sentenced to a penalty one degree lighter than that
provided for the crime of plotting murder.) "7
Code of the Ch'ing, vol. XXVI; under
The law for plotting murder provides that, if the premeditated murder
be accomplished, the principal shall be sentenced to decapitation, subject to
revision at the Autumn Assize, and the active accomplices to strangulation,
subject to revision at the Autumn Assize. Other accessories are punished
by 100 blows of the heavy bamboo and banishment for life to a distance of
3,000 li. If the victim be not killed, the punishment of the principal varies
from strangulation subject to revision in case of wounding, to 100 blows and
three years exile in case no injury is done. Accomplices correspondingly
lighter.

WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
65
"If the attempt do not result in injury to anyone, (the principal)
shall be beheaded, and his wife and sons be banished for life to a distance
of 2,000 li, (but other persons dwelling in the house with him shall not
be punished; nor shall the property of such principal be confiscated),
Accomplices (taking an active part) shall receive 100 blows of the heavy
bamboo and be banished for life to a distance of 3,000 li. (Accessories not
taking an active part shall receive sentence lighter by one degree.) Any
village headman who is cognizant of the facts and takes no action shall
receive 100 blows of the heavy bamboo, but, if ignorant of the facts, shall
not be punished.
"Any person giving information leading to arrest shall be rewarded
by the local authorities with a gift of Tls. 20."
The notes which follow the text of the Law still more
clearly differentiate the crime from that of mutilation, as
described in the preceding section of the Code, and from the
crime of premeditated murder, both of the latter being defined
as due to malice and undertaken to secure vengeance,
conditions which are wanting in the crime treated of in the
present section.
The solitary Statute annexed to this Law provides that
relatives of the criminal who give information against him
or arrest him and send him to the authorities shall secure
for themselves and for the wife, and sons of the criminal, as
well as the other inmates of the house, immunity from
punishment.
The Commentary gives us to understand that it is not
merely the crime of maiming or murder that is punished, but
rather the witchcraft in whose practice mutilation and murder
are but incidents.
"The gravity of the crime of mutilation for purposes of
witchcraft," says the Commentary, "lies in the practice of the
witchcraft. Therefore those who exercise it, even though they
have injured no one, are nevertheless beheaded and their wives
and sons are sent into banishment."

66
WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
the
It is because this law is directed against witchcraft rather
than the crimes to which witchcraft may lead that no
distinction is made in the punishment of those who maim and
those who kill, both alike being subject to the full penalty-
the awful death by slicing, the confiscation of property, and
the banishment of wives and sons for life. "For," says
Commentary, "although the victim may not have died, the
criminal has exercised his black art and is equally guilty with
him whose victim has been killed."
"The harm done
by murder falls upon one family and one generation, but the
injury done by witchcraft is that it poisons a whole community
and bequeaths calamity for after generations to dread. There-
fore it is the more serious crime."
may
be
The arts of the sorcerer are exercised not only in
manufacturing remedies of magical power out of the organs
of the mutilated body, but also beforehand in deluding his
victim, as is commonly believed, and bringing him into
his power so that the limbs or organs needed
obtained. Sometimes the object is to enslave the victim's
ghost and thus secure a spiritual attendant who can come and
go unseen and do his master's evil will. The Commentary
acknowledges the reality of the sorcerer's power in these
words:"There are those who by obtaining the year, moon
and day of one's birth are able to bewitch him and lead him
into a mountain forest where they deprive him of his vital
vapor and capture his soul, of which they make a spirit-slave
to serve them."
The Tu Lü Pei Chieh says:-"Those guilty of the
crime of collecting vitality by mutilating the human body
are such as seize a living person, and, putting him to death,
take his sense organs for use in magic; or such as by the use
of some magic art and evil principle, having secured the year,
moon and day of one's birth, bewitch him and cause him to

WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
67
wander into some lonely spot deep in the mountains, where
they kill him, cut off his limbs, scoop out the vital vapor
of his five viscera and capture his soul which becomes a spirit-
slave and does their bidding. Those persons in the two Kuang
Provinces, in Fukien, and in Honan, who deal in spirit
revelations are of this class. There is another sort, comprising
those who delude and kidnap the young, and roast their sense
organs and their bones for the manufacture therefrom of
medicine, a marvellously efficacious remedy for diseases of the
various organs.
There is still another class, comprising those who,
perhaps by drugs, stupefy and delude pregnant women,
causing them to wander deep into the mountains where the
foetus is taken from the womb to be made into a most
reliable remedy for barrenness. There are others still who
use human beings as sacrifices to evil spirits."
The eight cyclical characters which express the year,
moon, day and hour of one's birth are used in the calculation
of one's horoscope, and it is easy to see that if a sorcerer were
to get possession of them he might be credited with power to
affect the destiny of the person involved.
It is the common belief of the Chinese to-day that men
and women may be bewitched and compelled unconsciously to
do the will of others. This belief reflects itself not only
in this Law, but in the provisions of the Statute, as revised
so recently as 1870, relating to kidnapping, which declares
that, "if drugged cakes, or any sort of sorcery or magic
be used to befool and kidnap young boys or girls, the
principals shall be decapitated immediately, and the accom-
plices sent into military servitude for life on the extreme
frontiers of the Empire, a full four thousand li's distance."
Many illustrations could be given from Chinese literature
of the belief in the power of sorcery to call the soul out

68
WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
of the living body as well as to control the spirits of the dead
and avail themselves of their service. The use of various
organs of the human body in the manufacture of magical
remedies for disease is quite in harmony with the orthodox
theories of disease and medicine. All residents of China
are familiar with attempts of dutiful sons or daughters,
by cutting pieces of flesh from their own arms or thighs,
to prepare a remedy that may save the life of a dying
parent.10 One of the most popular stories related of the
Goddess of Mercy, Kuan-yin, is that of her sacrifice of a
hand and an eye to save her father.
The Commentary cites a case referred to the Board of
Punishments in the XIV Year of Ch'ien-lung (1749 A.D.)
in which one Ku Ching-wên of the province of Kiangsu was
convicted of the boiling of the bodies of certain children
in order to manufacture medicine of them. In one instance
it was the corpse of a child, taken from the grave by a man
named P'an Ming-kao, who delivered it to Ku; in another
a living child kidnapped by another confederate, Li Yüan-
fang, was put alive into the cooking vessel and boiled to
death.
Another case was that of a leper, Liu Kung-yo of
Hsiang-shan Hsien, Kuangtung, who, having heard that
De Groot in his Religious System of China, vol. IV, p. 101 relates
how Tang Pao-hêng obtained from Chang Tao-ling, the Taoist Pope,
some charms which enabled him to capture souls of living beings and
cause them to serve him.
It is a common practice in China to-day to attempt to call back
the souls of the dying. I have myself witnessed the ceremony. As for
pretended communion with the dead, that is more common in China than in
the West where also it still lingers, a survival from an earlier and less
enlightened age.
For a detailed discussion of this subject, consult De Groot
Religious System of China, vol. IV, chapter xiv.
10 Vide file of Peking Gazette, September 5th, 1881, and elsewhere.

WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
69
human gall mixed with rice was a cure for his disease,
mentioned the matter to Liu Jui-wei, who saw a chance
to make a little money. After a few days the latter came
to the leper and said that he could get some gall and rice,
and asked what price would be paid for it. The leper said he
would give Tls. 120 if a cure were effected. Liu Jui-wei
then attempted to secure the gall bladder of Yüan A-chu.
He succeeded in cutting open the abdomen of the unfortunate
victim, but failed to find the gall bladder, and two days
later Yüan died. The criminal Liu Jui-wei suffered death
by ling-ch'ih and the leper was sentenced to 100 blows
with the heavy bamboo and three years exile, but, being
diseased, was permitted to compound for a money payment.
All this occurred in Ch'ien-lung XII (1747 A.D.)"1
The use of the organs of living persons as medicine is
based upon the belief that the vitality of one person can be
made to prolong the life of another. This belief has led to
other crimes than mutilation. A most revolting case is cited
in the Commentary, into the details of which it is not necessary
to enter. For sixteen years from 1796 to 1810 A.D. a certain
Chang Liang-pi had followed a practice, well understood
While engaged in writing the above my attention has been called to
an article in the Peking and Tientsin Times of September 19th, 1906, quoted
from the Kobe Herald of the 6th of September, which relates how a miller,
Katustaro Baba of Hirade, Shinano Province, Japan, had made a practice of
killing women and selling their livers which were held to be effective
remedy for certain diseases. Three women were said to have been murdered
by him in 1905 and one in 1906. Recently he attempted to kill another,
but the woman made such resistance that he had to desist, and then to
escape arrest he tried to commit suicide. He is reported to have made a full
confession.
The liver as being the supposed seat of courage is highly prized by the
soldiery and we often read in Chinese literature of the eating by warriors of
the livers of their enemies.
10

70
WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
among the Chinese, by which he derived, as he believed, the
vitality of little girls, bought or otherwise secured by him.
Eleven of the children died in that time as the result of these
practices, and one other was in an enfeebled condition when
the trial occurred. The criminal paid the full penalty, being
executed by the process of ling-ch'ih, his head exposed, and
his property confiscated and given to the families of the
victims. In this case the Edict directed that notice of the
execution should be circulated to a distance of 400 li from
scene of the crimes and that the families of the children
injured should stand around the criminal while he was being
slowly cut to pieces.
Another use of the organs taken from the bodies of living
persons is that of communicating vitality to an image used for
magical purposes. The Commentary says:-
"Those who practice witchcraft take the eyes and ears of human
beings, cut off their hands and feet and fasten these members upon the
image of a man either carved out of wood, or moulded of clay, which image
they then by their evil arts cause to do work for them."
This cruel practice finds its origin in that animism which
seems to have swayed the minds of all races in their earlier
history, the belief that by the observance of a certain
ceremonial stocks and stones and graven images could be
made to be the habitation of spirits and thus to become
miracle-working agents. As the blood was commonly held
to be the vehicle of life, a part of the ceremonial usually
consisted in smearing the stone or the image with blood,
and to this day in China when the idols in a temple are
dedicated a little blood, or its substitute red paint, is placed
in the eyes, ears, nostrils and mouth of each image, by which
it is supposed to be quickened. If the blood of animals can
give life to an image made by man, the blood of a human
being ought to be much more efficacious. Thus no doubt

WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
71
early men reasoned themselves into the practice of human
sacrifice. The attempt to give the image the sense organs
and the limbs of a human being is certainly one of which
little has been heard, but it is easy to see that those who
believe that images can be quickened could persuade
themselves without difficulty that the possession of the
real organs of sense and not their likenesses merely would
make the image still more powerful. The early Christians
did not deny that the idols of the heathen were sometimes
quickened by spirits; they merely claimed that they were
evil spirits. Nor has Christian Europe yet freed itself from
the belief in miracle-working images. It is hardly proper for
us, therefore, to throw stones at China because some of her
people believe that their idols are animated and can perform
wonderful cures or work other marvels. But the crime of
the sorcerer is not that he possesses a miracle-working image;
it consists in securing power for his image at the expense of
his fellows, and the Chinese Law, though not denying the
reality of the power, supposed to be working through such an
image, regards the profession and practice of the black art by
which such results are believed to be secured as hostile to the
best interests of society, and therefore prohibits such pursuits
under the awful penalties cited.
The text of the law regarding magic potions, spells and
charms, is as follows, authoritative notes in parentheses:-
"Anyone who makes or keeps ku poison capable of destroying
human life, and any person who instructs others in the art (of making
or preserving it) shall be beheaded. (It is not necessary to prove intent to
kill.) The property, personal and real, of those who make and those who keep
it (No matter whether or not anyone has been killed) shall be confiscated
to the State, and the wives and sons of the criminals and all inmates of the
same house with them, although ignorant of the facts, shall be banished for
life to a distance of 2,000 li. (The property of the person, who instructs in
the art, and his wife and sons are not included.) If the ku poison be used

72
WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
to poison an inmate of the same house with the criminal, the father, mother,
wife and concubines of the victim, and his sons and grandsons, if ignorant
of the fact that au poison has been made, shall be exempt from sentence of
banishment, (If one have knowledge of the facts, even though poisoned, he
shall still suffer the penalty.) If any of the headmen of the hundred, or
village, have knowledge of the facts and neglect to give information, they
shall each be beaten with one hundred blows of the heavy bamboo. If they
have no knowledge of the facts, they shall not be liable to punishment. Any-
one giving information leading to arrests shall be rewarded by the official
with Tls. 20.00. If anyone make a nightmare demon enchantment, or
write any charm or curse with desire to commit murder thereby, he shall
be punished (according as he may be unrelated to the intended victim, or
related as son, grandson, slave, hired servant, elder or junior relative) under
the provisions for plotting murder (execution of the plot attempted but
without injury).
"If anyone should die as the result of such efforts the criminal shall
be punished under that clause of the Law for (premeditated) murder, which is
applicable to his case. But, if the desire be merely to bring distressing
illness upon another, (i.e. there is no intent to kill), the penalty shall be two
degrees lighter (than that for plotting to kill with attempted execution of
the plot but without injury to anyone). But a son or grandson thus
plotting against his parents or grand-parents (wives and concubines plotting
against parents-in-law or grand-parents-in-law are not mentioned but they
are in the same category as sons and grandsons), or slaves or hired servants
plotting against a master, shall not be allowed any reduction of the penalty.
(They shall suffer the penalty for plotting murder with attempted execution
of the plot, that is, decapitation.)
In the translation of the above Law, I have left the word,
ku, untranslated, because a word or a phrase would hardly
convey the meaning. Giles says that it is "a virulent poison
prepared by putting all kinds of poisonous insects and reptiles
together in a box and letting them eat each other (sic) until
only one remains." This definition is incomplete. If the ku
poison were nothing more, there would be no reason for
giving it special treatment in the Law; it could be classed
with other poisons, and the user of it for criminal purposes be
punished as any other poisoner. The definition fails to take
note of the magical character of the compound. The notes

WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
73
appended to the text of the Law call particular attention to
the distinction between ku poisoning and ordinary cases of
poisoning. Of common poisons it says:-"They are such
substances as arsenic, already prepared for use, and not
like the ku poison which must wait to be manufactured.
Ordinary poisons are sometimes needed in the treatment of
disease; they are unlike ku poison which is made especially
for murder, and is not allowed to be kept on hand." The
notes point out also that no distinction is made by the Law
between principal and accomplice in the use of the ku poison,
while such distinctions must be made in the case of those who
employ ordinary poisons for criminal purposes. It states
further that it is not necessary to prove that the ku poison
has been used with intent to kill but merely that it is a
deadly poison, in which case the maker or keeper of it, and
the instructor in its manufacture, must all pay the full
penalty, whether the poison be used or not. The provisions
with regard to ordinary poisons are quite different, make a
distinction between accidental and intentional poisoning, and
require dealers to inform themselves as to the character of the
purchaser and his purpose in buying.
The Commentary enters into an explanation of the
manner in which the ku poison is made. It says:-"Ku
poison is made in many ways, though mostly of a mixture of
poisonous insects or reptiles. There is snake ku, goose ku,
ku made from young children, and the golden caterpillar ku.
In some cases the use of the ku-tu produces immediately
death, and in others does not result in death until after a
number of years.
But the golden caterpillar ku is said to be
the most virulent, and those who take it cannot escape
death. It is found in Fukien, Kuangtung, Szechuen, and
Kueichou." A Chinese friend explaining to me the nature
of the ku-tu or ku poison, said that a woman might prepare

74
WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
such a potion for her husband, and administer it to him
without his knowledge as he is about to leave home for a
term of years with the purpose of killing him only if he shall
prove unfaithful or neglect to return within the specified
time. The potion in such case would not take effect until
the period of years had elapsed, and not even then unless the
husband should prove unfaithful. This agrees with the
statement of the Commentary that death may not result
until after a number of years, and it is evident that we are
here dealing with a species of witchcraft. This is evident
too from its place in the Code between the section on
mutilation for purposes of magic and that on invocation of
demons and preparation of charms and curses.
With reference to this last-mentioned crime, the Notes
say: "The Laws of the Tang Dynasty tell us that there
are many who, having grudges against others, invoke the
nightmare demon or write some charm or curse. The
invoking of the nightmare demon and the use of spells and
curses are two different things. The invoking of the nightmare
demon is the use of sorcery to put one under the power of a
devil or an evil spirit, such practice, for instance, as drawing
a likeness or carving an image of a person and then piercing
its heart or eyes, or binding its hands and feet.12
By a spell or curse is meant the writing of a charm or
the drawing of a cryptogram by the methods of witchcraft,
which is then either buried in order to summon devils or
burned so as to secure the aid of evil spirits. It includes
also the taking of the year, moon and day of the birth of the
person whom it is desired to kill, and writing the characters
for the same in such a way as to work them into a curse.
Tylor, Early History of Mankind, pp. 118 and 119, mentions similar
practices among the Indians of North America, the ancient Peruvians, the
Hindus and Karens.

WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
75
All who employ such methods with intent to kill, have
murder in their hearts and must be dealt with according
to the Law provided for plotting to murder. Hence this
Law says such criminals are to be punished according as
they may be related or unrelated to the victim, under the
clause providing for plotting to kill with attempted execution
of the plot but without injury to any person, if, notwith-
standing the desire to invoke the nightmare demon or
employ a spell, or curse with intent to kill, the intended
victim shall have escaped injury. But if the process shall
have resulted in the death of the victim, then he shall be
punished according to the clause providing for murder
accomplished (after deliberate planning), due distinction
being made between the murder of relatives and of other
persons.
With regard to the invocation of demons, and the use of
spells and curses, the Commentary says:-"But examination
must be made as to the method employed to kill by invoking
demons, or by use of spells and curses, all of which are
black arts, but not all intended to produce death directly. Of
these some aim first to injure one's ears, eyes or other member
of the body; others to first render one crazy or confused, and
cause him gradually to die. If the original intention be to
kill, and the process have already resulted in injury to the
eyes, ears or other members of the body, or in the insanity
of his victim, then he shall be punished under the Law
providing for plotting to kill resulting in wounding." The
penalty for this offence is sentence to strangling subject to
revision at the Autumn Assize.
The Commentary mentions another form of witchcraft
whose punishment is provided for in an Edict of Chia-ch'ing,
XXII, which says:-"Anyone who, in cherishing a
grudge, shall take a peg of peach or ailanthus wood and

76
WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
attempt therewith to spoil the feng-shui of another person's
ancestral tombs, shall suffer the same penalty as one who, with
desire to bring sickness or distress upon another, invokes the
nightmare demon or uses spells and enchantments, i.e. two
degrees lighter than the penalty for plotting murder,
resulting in assault but without injury to the person attacked;
that is exile for two years."
The retention of these laws in the Chinese Code in spite
of recent revision indicates for China a stage of culture
similar to that which prevailed in Europe in the seventeenth
century. Whether we look East or West, in short, we find
the same law of progress holding good, and similarity of
belief marking similar degrees of advancement.
Primitive man was not troubled by distinctions of
animate and inanimate; to him all nature was animate. He
found no difficulty in ascribing to stocks and stones, to sun
and wind, to stars and clouds, the lightning and the sea, both
intelligence and will. Storm and sunshine, rain and drought,
the earthquake and the pestilence, all the processes of nature,
gracious or malevolent, were to him the manifestations of the
power of other beings, good or evil-probably capricious;
gods, it might be; angels, perhaps, or demons; or, perchance,
the spirits of the dead. To win the favor of such powerful
beings meant life; to incur their hatred meant destruction.
To be able to control such powers and command the assistance
of such intelligences-this was the aim of the savage medicine-
man, fore-runner of the priest, the physician, and the man
of science. It was Herbert Spencer who pointed out this
connection between the modern man of science and the primitive
medicine-man. Of the latter he said:-"Ever striving to
maintain and increase his influence over those around, (he)
is stimulated more than others to obtain such knowledge
of natural phenomena as may aid him in his efforts."

WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
77
"He speculates as to the causes of the striking things he
observes in the Heavens and on the Earth; and whether he
regards these causes as personal or impersonal, the subject-
matter of his thought is the subject-matter which in
later times is distinguished as philosophical. . . A further
reason why he becomes distinguished from men around
by his wider information and deeper insight is that he
is, as compared with them, a man of leisure. From
the beginning he lives on the contributions of others; and,
therefore, he is better able to devote himself to these
observations and inquiries out of which science originates." 13
Among the Mexicans at the time of the discovery of
America the medicine-men had already become an organized
priesthood, and we learn that there as well as among the
priesthoods of ancient Egypt, India, and elsewhere, there
was preserved much knowledge of astronomy, mathematics
and medicine. Such knowledge was of course much
mixed with superstition, and employed to increase and
strengthen the influence of the priesthood over the people, but
it cannot be denied that, in so far as it was a real knowledge
of facts, it greatly aided the progress of civilization. But as
the medicine-man pondered the problems committed to him
for solution, and sought to discover satisfactory theories for
the explanation of the phenomena of the natural world, and
invent means for controlling and directing natural forces, he
fell into many errors.
Any unusual event, such as the appearance of a comet, if
followed by war or other calamity, would thenceforth be
Professional Institutions: VI, Man of Science and Philosopher,"
Popular Science Monthly, October 1895, p. 739.
"Prescott's Conquest of Mexico, vol. I, pp. 70, 101, 122 ff. Vide also
Fiske's Discovery of America, vol. I, p. 119, and Bancroft's History of the
United States, vol. I, p. 133.
11

78
WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
considered as an omen of disaster; the post hoc would become
a propter hoc. Dreams were messages from the dead; for did
not the dead appear and speak? Fanciful resemblances
between various parts of a plant and certain organs of the
human body led to the doctrine of signatures. We derive
strength from the food which we eat, and man is variously
affected by the varying qualities of that food; it is an easy
step to conclude that by eating the heart or liver, already
regarded as the seat of courage, of a brave enemy, one may
acquire his courage. The name of a friend at once calls up
a mental picture of that friend; at an objective portrait of
him we will gaze as tenderly as though the man himself were
there. To a child her doll is a real person; so to the child-
mind of the primitive man the connection between the real
object and its name or the mental picture of it is a very close
one, and it is not difficult to understand how the belief arose
that one could be injured through his name or an image
called by that name. 15 Thus through imperfect observation,
fallacious reasoning from the
of events,
sequence
confusion of the subjective processes of the mind with
objective realities, a great number of superstitions arose.
Civilized man has travelled very far from some of these early
superstitions, for the reasoning faculties of the enlightened
mind are much keener than those of the savage; but great as
the progress may be, a very little observation will show that
superstition is by no means eradicated from the minds even of
the highly cultured, while in out-of-the-way corners of the most
highly civilized countries and among the uneducated classes we
may find numerous survivals of primitive belief and practice.
and a
So long as astrological almanacs find purchasers in Great
Britain; so long as relics of the dead are touched for healing
15 Vide Tylor's Early History of Mankind, pp. 116 and 117, and
Primitive Culture, vol. I, p. 116.

WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
79
in other European countries, and so long as spiritualism and
occult Buddhism find numerous adherents in the United
States, while charms and quackery are resorted to for
protection against evil and the cure of disease in all parts of
the Western world, so long must we refrain from claiming
that the West has emancipated itself from the magic which was
the pseudo-science of our forefathers. Multitudes of persons
in all lands are still influenced by dreams and by supposed
communications from the dead; miracles of healing are
reported by faith-cure establishments and by the Christian-
Science adepts in the United States, as well as by pilgrims
to the holy shrines of Europe; and even in recent years the
world has been shocked by horrible crimes committed in
the most highly civilized states of the West under the
delusion that some magical results were to be accomplished
thereby, or to avenge some injury believed to have been
inflicted by witchcraft. We need not linger over the
voodooism of the negroes in the United States or the West
Indies, since the black race is but a few generations
removed from savagery, and as "witchcraft is part and parcel
savage life" 16
we cannot be surprised to find survivals of
it among the negroes of to-day. It is worth noting, however,
that a witch was burned at Camargo in Mexico as late as
1860.17 It is still more remarkable to read that in 1877 an
Irish immigrant and his wife in New York City burned their
child to death under the delusion that it was not their child
but a changeling. A more horrible case resulted in the murder
of two children, who were beaten to death by their mothers
under a similar delusion at a village in Prussian Posen on
of
16 Tylor's Primitive Culture, vol. I, p. 138.
17 "Superstition and Crime," by E. P. Evans, in Popular Science
Monthly for December 1898, p. 210.

80
WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
November 19th, 1871.18 In 1881 a village community in
the interior of Russia tried and burned a witch; 19 and in
October 1889 a Samoyede, Jefrern Pyrerka was tried in the
Criminal Court of the province of Archangelsk in Northern
Russia for the murder of a maiden named Ssavaney. It
appeared during the trial that he had lost all his children the
previous winter through illness and had become possessed of
the notion that some devil was angry
with him. He
therefore strangled the girl and offered her in sacrifice to an
image of the devil which he had made out of wood and set up
on a hillock. 20 In the article from which the last incident
is quoted there will be found a long list of such crimes
committed in various parts of the Western world, some of
them as recently as 1896. Some of the crimes mentioned are
very similar to those referred to in the Chinese Commentary,
such as the opening of a grave in Poland by a shepherd who
mutilated the corpse in order to obtain the liver for magical
purposes; or the murders committed in various parts of
Europe with the object of securing the fat of the human body
for the manufacture of candles, much in demand among
thieves for their supposed soporific powers. Where such
a candle is used it is believed that the household will fall
into a deep sleep and the thief be able to rob with impunity.
The Chinese crime of securing unborn children for purposes
of magic is also paralleled by numerous instances given. It
is quite evident therefore that it makes no difference whether
we look East or West, in certain stages of culture we shall
find the practice of witchcraft. There is this to be said
for the West, however, that the number of its people who still
18 Superstition and Crime," by E. P. Evans, in Popular Science
Monthly for December 1898, pp. 211, 212.
19 Schaff-Herzog Encyclopædia: Article "Witchcraft."
20 Evans on "Superstition and Crime," vide above.

WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
81
linger in the lower stages of culture is much smaller than
that of the Chinese in the same condition. The instances
that have been given above show that the superstition in
question is found only among the uneducated and in out-
of-the-way places to which modern learning has scarcely
penetrated as yet. But a more important difference between
West is the attitude of the State toward
the East and the
the practice. Penal Codes in the West long since refused to
recognize any power in magic to help or to injure ;
witchcraft as an offence in itself indictable does not exist. In
China the mere practice of sorcery with intent to injure, even
if no one be injured, is a capital crime. Science is still in its
swaddling clothes in China, and therefore all forms of
witchcraft flourish, and believers in the reality of its power
are found not only among the ignorant peasantry but among
the gentry and scholars as well, and in some of its forms it
finds recognition in the rites and ordinances of the State.
On every street corner you find the physiognomist and the
diviner; the booths of the fortune-teller and the medical
quack abound in the market-places; and the walls are
placarded with advertisements of spirit mediums. Demon
possession is a phenomenon of frequent occurrence and its
reality is vouched for by a Christian Doctor of Divinity."
The State locates its palaces, temples and tombs by
geomancy; astrologers determine the lucky days for the
commencement of its important public works; the highest
officials are deputed to rescue the sun and moon from the
dragon or the dog that is causing an eclipse, and the Son of
Heaven prays to the magical iron tablet that can bring the
long-desired rain. Charms and amulets protect the home
from calamity and the body from disease, and the mumbled
21 Demon Possession and Allied Themes. By Rev. J. L. Nevius, D.D.

82
WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
incantations of the lamas at the new year's season, as they
make their offerings in the skull of an executed criminal and
dance in masques about the image of a demon, are still
depended upon to frighten away the evil spirits whose
malignant power might disturb the harmony of the State or
cause the husbandman to toil in vain. The river god is
invoked to stay the ravages of the flood, and votive offerings
are decreed by Imperial Command to multitudinous saints
and deities whose intervention has brought success in arms or
opposed the march of the pestilence. Are not all these
superstitions close akin to witchcraft? There can be no
doubt that for the Chinese the Age of Miracles still continues,
and that for the most part they still linger at a stage of
culture wherein witchcraft cannot but flourish.
If it be said
that the laws against witchcraft are perhaps obsolete; that
they are but survivals from the legislation of an earlier age
when fear of the black art was more common, we have only
to turn to the files of the Peking Gazette to show that belief
in the power of witch potions and magical incantations and
spells is still a living principle affecting judicial decisions in
some of the highest courts of the Empire. On September
8th, 1873, a memorial was submitted to the Throne, trans-
mitting a report from the Prefect of Ch'eng-te, in Jehol,
concerning the crimes of two men who had been accused of
witchcraft and who had confessed under the severest tortures
that they were engaged by a third person to supply hearts
and eyes taken from living persons at fifty taels a set, and
that they had decoyed children either by blowing a powder
into their eyes or giving it to them to eat in red jujubes;
that such children would then follow them in a trance, and
that when a solitary place was reached they would cut the
child's body open with a sickle and take out the heart; that
they would also gouge out the eyes, and that the child would

WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
83
neither bleed nor cry. In two attempts, one in Shantung
and one in Chihli, they had succeeded, and had been paid
for the hearts and eyes; but in the third they had been
caught before the child was seriously injured. The men were
both ordered to immediate execution.
That murders are committed with the purpose of securing
certain organs of the human body needed in magic or quack
medicine cannot be doubted, but that such has been the case
in any particular instance confessed to only under the severest
tortures may well be doubted. During the trials for witch-
craft in Europe in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries
thousands of innocent persons confessed under torture to the
performance of all sorts of crimes, even the creation of storms
and the manipulation of the lightning. The torturer has
only to suggest the confession wanted and it will be made,
for men and women will acknowledge the truth of any charge
however impossible in order to secure release from the agony
being suffered. That children can be bewitched by a little
powder into following perfect strangers in a trance and
submitting to mutilation without bleeding and without crying
is of course absolutely incredible, yet the judge had no
hesitation in believing such a tale.
On February 25th, 1877, the Governor of Kiangsu
submitted a memorial, reporting the trial and execution of
certain witches and wizards who had during previous months
disturbed the quiet of the province by use of incantations and
the manufacture of paper men, through which means queues
were cut off and various injuries inflicted upon the bodies of
the victims of such sorcery. One man arrested was put to
torture to discover his confederates. Under such conditions
he accused a neighbor and his wife of supplying him with
the paper men and the words of the incantation. These
neighbors were then arrested, but very stubbornly refused to

84
WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
was at least more
confess their guilt. They were then subjected to rigorous
interrogation without intermission day or night. Is it not
easy to foresee the result? The woman finally yielded to
such persuasion and confessed that she had met a stranger
whose speech indicated that he was from foreign parts, who
gave her some foreign money and taught her the words of an
incantation and the art of making paper men that would
become able to attack and injure human beings. This secret
they had communicated to the recently executed criminal
who had accused them. The woman
merciful than her neighbor, since she implicated no one by
name save the dead man, and made it impossible to extend
the chain of unfortunate victims. Her husband, being
confronted with the confession of his wife, admitted its truth,
but to make sure that the truth had been told the prisoners
were again put to the torture three times and confirmed their
previous statements, upon which they were promptly executed.
The Governor gravely comments that such crimes are scarcely
expiated by death, and he gives solemn assurance that no
relaxation of vigilance will be allowed, but that all such
offenders will be arrested and punished. All this occurred
less than thirty years ago and in one of the most enlightened
provinces of the Empire.
It is only fair to say that, as there were men in Europe
in the sixteenth century who dared to oppose the popular
delusion respecting witchcraft, even at the loss of their liberty
or life, as in the case of Loos, Flade and others, 22 so there
have been enlightened officials in China, less credulous than
the Governor of Kiangsu in 1877, who have refused to cater
to popular prejudice, and who have either acquitted the
White's History of Warfare of Science with Theology, vol. I,
p. 356, and II, p. 119.

WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
85
accused or remanded the prisoners from time to time,
apparently in the hope that the superstitious fears of the
people would subside and make it possible to release the
suspected persons. In the case of Chang Liang-pi, cited
above, the Commentary states that the District Magistrate
and the Prefect had refused to punish the accused, and the
memorialist quoted had recommended that they be cashiered.
A more recent case is one that occurred in Uliasut'ai in
1881. A certain Mongol noble was accused by the Deputy
Lieutenant-General of assembling a number of lamas to
utter diabolical incantations resulting in the death of the
Lieutenant-General's son. After a preliminary trial the case
came before a Military Secretary, who after much wavering
found the accused guilty and sent them with the evidence to
the Military Governor, where the prisoners denied their
previous confessions and refused to admit their guilt. The
Governor then investigates, and finds the whole case based
upon mere hearsay evidence, and obtains proof that the
Secretary had been bribed to secure a conviction. The
case then turns against the Secretary and the prosecutors,
who are recommended for various punishments.
So long, however, as the State ritual, official customs
and the Imperial Statutes recognize certain superstitions and
magical practices as legitimate, it will be impossible for
magistrates and judges to make public declaration of their
disbelief in the power of magic. On July 22nd, 1882, for
instance, the Viceroys and Governors were commanded by
Imperial Decree to resort to the traditional methods for
expelling the scaly dragon which causes floods.
This was in
response to a memorial submitted by a Censor, Kuang-hsi,
who declared that the position of the dragon in the ground
p. 69.
12

86
WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
would be indicated by the color of the soil, the light emitted
by it or the sounds sent forth, and by the fact that in winter
no snow lies on the spot, and no herbage appears there in
spring. The animal will always be discovered after digging
to a depth of five feet or so. The Censor asks:-" Would it
not be better to destroy the hidden evil than merely to
provide against the floods which it causes, especially since
such floods are worse than those caused by the overflow of
the rivers?" 24
The so-called Imperial College of Astronomy is really
a college of astrology, and the almanac prepared by it for the
use of the Government contains a great deal of information as
to lucky days, signs, omens, etc. Eighteen official professors
of feng-shui are employed and must be consulted before
building enterprises are undertaken. Attention to the
requirements of feng-shui is necessary, not only to secure the
present prosperity of the Empire but to preserve it to the
Dynasty in the future. When the Comptroller of the
Imperial Household in 1878 appropriated for a family burial
ground certain lands belonging to a temple where prayers
were sometimes offered for rain, it was held that he had
interrupted the dragon pulse, and that the prayers for rain
had therefore become inefficient. When the Emperor
Yung-cheng began to plan a tomb for himself, the professors
of geomancy informed him that the site which had been
selected near the sepulchres of Shun-chih and K'ang-hsi was
not a felicitous one, and, after various places had been
examined, it was decided to establish another Imperial
Cemetery to the west of Peking, at a place which was extolled
in the highest terms by the geomancers consulted as capable of
insuring the prosperity of the Dynasty for a myriad years. 25
24 Vide Translation of Peking Gazette, North-China Herald.
25 Vide De Groot's Religious System of China, vol. III, pp. 1293-1296.

WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
87
The Hsi Yüan Lu 26 is a work which has been made by
Law an authoritative guide to magistrates in the discharge of
their duties as coroners. A part of it, indeed, is embodied
in the Code itself. The last edition, issued in 1891, has
omitted none of the anatomical misinformation which its
authors compiled, and none of their curious prescriptions.
Among other directions are the following for identifying
the bones of a deceased parent, when there is some doubt
upon the subject:"Drop a little of the child's blood
upon
the supposed bones of the parent; if the bones be really those
of a parent the blood will soak in, but if otherwise it will
not do so. Care must be taken, however, that the bones
be not washed in brackish water, lest in that case the blood
and bones refuse to unite, even though they be related.
Elder and younger brothers have a common origin, and may
prove their relationship by dropping a little of the blood of
each in a vessel of water. If the persons concerned be really
brothers the drops of blood will flow together. But if by
any chance vinegar or salt be mixed with the water, the
union will take place, even though there be no relationship.
Some say that husbands and wives may establish the fact of
such relationship by the blood and water test; others say that
the blood and bone test cannot be made to apply to such
a relationship, so that there is some room for doubt upon this
point. If, however, the vessel of water be too large, or the
quantity of water too great, the drops of blood, being too
widely separated, may not unite; and if an interval elapse
between the dropping of one person's blood and that of the
other, there will be a difference of temperature in the two
drops which may prevent their union." 27
*洗冤錄
27
, 7 and 8. Incorporated in vol. V of Hsi Yüan Lu.

88
WITCHCRAFT IN THE OHINESE PENAL CODE.
A number of instances from Chinese history are given
of the employment of the blood test to establish relationship
between long-separated kinsmen, and between children and
their deceased parents. Other instances are given in which
the blood test is used to defeat the schemes of impostors who
claim relationship with the dead in order to levy blackmail.
How easy it would be in China to dispose of the pretences
of a Tichborne claimant! In the fourteenth year of Ch'ien-
lung a wife is held to have been probably guilty of
unfaithfulness to her husband, and her daughter to have been
born of an illicit connection, because neither the blood of the
wife nor that of the daughter would unite with the bones of
the deceased husband and father.28 The test is a recognized
one in the courts to-day. The Peking Gazette of November
25th, 1882, records its use to identify the bones of a deceased
parent by a young man in Chehkiang. The
had been
opened and the bones scattered by a cousin who wished to
revenge himself in a family quarrel.
grave
More remarkable is the method prescribed by the Hsi
Yüan Lu for the discovery of the location and character
of wounds on a body which has already been entirely
destroyed, or of which but a few odd bones remain. This
method is referred to and described a number of times in
the work just mentioned. In one case the grave was opened
and but a few bones were found. These were taken out and
a hot fire made in the grave pit. Sesamum seed was then
thrown in and scattered about.
The grave was covered over
for an hour, and afterwards the sesamum seed was swept
out with a broom. But some of the seed clung to the soil,
and on examination it was found that there was outlined by
it, on the bottom of the grave, the image of the dead man.
25 Hei Yian Lu, vol. I, 57.

WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
89
A clot of the sesamum seed was found at a spot corresponding
to the navel. The remainder of the seed was then taken out
and another fire built in the pit. Some dregs of grain from a
still were mixed with water and thrown in. The fire was
then increased in intensity and later some hot vinegar was
poured in. A new table, lacquered with gold lacquer, was then
placed top down over the grave and left there for a few
moments. When it was taken off there was found outlined
on its surface the image of the dead man, and just over
the navel was the mark of a stab, an oblique wound 1.3
inches in length, a mortal wound inflicted by a wooden
instrument. 29 In Volume V of the work another instance
is given in which a man had been killed and his body burned,
so that no trace of it could be found. The grass and weeds
had grown
over the spot where the corpse had been
consumed. This was all cut down and cleared out even to
the roots. Kindling was brought and a hot fire built on the
spot. This was kept burning until the ground was thoroughly
heated. Several pecks of sesamum seed were then scattered
over the place, the oil of the seed being extracted by the heat
and absorbed by the earth. When the seeds had been swept
away, the image of the dead man was seen outlined on the
surface of the ground, the wounds which had been inflicted
upon his body being indicated by clots of sesamum seed,
large or small, square or round, according to the shape and
size of the wound. These seeds were then all swept away
and another hot fire built. Dregs of fermented grain mixed
with water and hot vinegar were poured over the place,
and a lacquered table placed upside down on the spot as
in the previous case, and the image of the dead man with the
wounds in his body appeared upon the surface of the table. 30
29 Hsi Yüan Lu, vol. V, 3.
30
, S, also Hsi Yüan Lu, vol. I, 60.

90
WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
Another case is cited in which two men were killed
and their bodies burned. The images of both men were
produced upon the table at the same time, showing the
wounds inflicted upon their bodies.³¹
Even more marvellous are the directions given in Vol. I
for procedure in a case in which the body of the dead
had been burned and the very site of the burning forgotten
by the criminal himself, except that it was near a certain
village and in a certain direction from a temple in the village.
The spot was a wild and lonely one, but in obedience to
the directions given examination of the district was made
until a spot was found where the grass had grown much
higher and more luxuriant than elsewhere. This growth
outlined the image of the dead man, thus indicating the spot
where the corpse had been burned.32 That this method
of discovering the wounds upon a body which cannot be
produced is believed in to-day is evident from the fact that
the latest edition of the Penal Code embodies in its
instructions to coroners a list of articles needed at inquests,
among which we find the sesamum seed, the vinegar and
the lacquered table.
Still another illustration of authorized magic is that
in Volume V, where directions are given for finding a corpse
that has been lost in the river:-"Take a piece of reed
matting and place on it an old pencil; put them on the
surface of the river, and allow them to float away. When
they pass over the spot where the body is lying, the pencil
will move and point to the place. Let those who are
searching for the corpse then drag the river at that spot,
and the body will be recovered." 33
1 Hsi Yüan Lu, vol. I, 62.
12Hsi Yüan Lu, vol. I, 60.
23
", 7. Incorporated in vol. V of Hsi Yüan Lu.

WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
91
It is well known that the Chinese Code permits a husband
to avenge his honor by killing an unfaithful wife and her
paramour. Sometimes, however, there is doubt as to the
guilt of the wife. In such a case the Hsi Yüan Lu prescribes
an infallible method for determining the fact:-"Take a
water-jar and fill it with water, one half from the river
and the other half from the well. This is called 'yin-yang'
water. Take a stick and stir the water into a swiftly
whirling eddy. Then take the heads of the decapitated
corpses of the man and woman and place them without delay
in the water. If the pair were really guilty, the heads will
turn nose to nose; but, if they were innocent, they will turn
back to back, one above and the other below in the jar."34
Antidotes to various poisons are given by the Hsi Yüan Lu
and many prescriptions for the cure of wounds. Some of
these are very good, but others are to be compounded on
certain days and at certain hours only, as on the 5th of the
fifth moon, or the 9th of the ninth moon, at high noon,
or otherwise, thus showing the magical character of the
prescription. Thus in the directions for the rescue of a person
from the effects of the ku poison, the witch's potion, described
above, the medicine, which among other things contains two
centipedes, one alive and one roasted, is to be compounded on
the 5th of the fifth moon or the 9th of the ninth moon, and
the patient must entirely avoid the other sex.35 Another
section of the work warns the reader against incautiously
entering an empty house or a grove that has been closed for a
long time.
Great care must be exercised, for lascivious fox-
spirits or dangerous demons may have made such a house or
grove their lurking-place. Serpents and wild beasts, too,
may
have made it their lair. If the grove be in a very retired
spot it is all the more dangerous. One should shout before
“石香秘錄,6.
Hai Yüan Lu, IV, 21.

92
WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
entering, or carry a torch with which to frighten the uncanny
creatures. 36
Many more illustrations might be given to show that a
certain kind of magic is regarded by law and by public
opinion as quite legitimate. The same distinction exists,
indeed, as was made in Europe in the sixteenth century, that
between "white" and "black" magic,-that which promotes
the general welfare being "white" or good magic, and that
which is employed to bring evil upon a man or a community
being regarded as "black" or unlawful. Among all primitive
peoples the latter has fallen under the condemnation of the
law, save, perhaps, when employed to injure the enemies
of the State.
In the Code of Hammurabi 37 the person accused of
sorcery was allowed the privilege of establishing his innocence
by throwing himself into the water. If the water overcame
him, he was held to be guilty and his property was given to
the informer. If, on the other hand, he escaped from the
water [swimming must have been a valuable accomplishment
in those days] his accuser was put to death for making a false
charge. This was much more merciful than the ordeal by
water prescribed by old English custom, which enabled the
accused to establish his innocence only by getting drowned,
for it was the common belief of all Europe in the Middle
Ages that the conscious water would reject the witch, and
King James in his Dæmonology says:-"It appears that
God hath appointed for a supernatural sign of the monstrous
impietie of witches, that the water shall refuse to receive them
into her bosom that have shaken off them the sacred water
of baptism." 38
36 Hsi Yüan Lu, III, 50.
The Code of Hammurabi. Edited by Robt. F. Harper, p. 11, §2.
"Tylor's Primitive Culture, I, p. 140.

WITCHCRAFT IN THE OHINESE PENAL CODE.
93.
The Code of Manu was the most merciful of all the old
codes. It provided a fine of 200 panas 39 for all incantations
intended to destroy life, for magic rites with roots, and
various kinds of sorcery.10
By the Twelve Tables of Rome, magical incantations
were punishable with death.11 The Hebrew Law was equally
severe, for it said: "Thou shalt not suffer a witch to
live." 42
Nor was this law a dead letter, for we read of
various attempts made by the kings of Israel and Judah to
exterminate the wizards and those that had familiar spirits.
By the time of Charlemagne the European world began
to grow more enlightened. His laws were "directed against
such as should put men or women to death on the charge of
witchcraft." 43 But five hundred years later the world
had slipped backward into darkness. At no other time in
history has there been such a sacrifice of innocent men and
women on the charge of witchcraft as during the period
embraced between the thirteenth and seventeenth centuries
in Christian Europe, when the dread of ghost and vampire,
and the fear of the black arts of the sorcerer were increased
by the religious superstition of the age. A wave of madness
seems to have swept over the Western world, and thousands
upon thousands of inoffensive people were imprisoned, tortured
and burned or hanged for an imaginary crime. After the
Reformation, Protestants rivalled Catholics in the zeal shown
in this awful persecution. "The giving up of witchcraft is in
effect the giving up of the Bible," said John Wesley." "I
39 A pana was equal to 150 grains of copper: Sacred Books of the
East, XXV, p. 277.
13
40 Sacred Books of the East, XXV, p. 394.
41 Gibbon, III, p. 709.
42 Exodus, xxii, 18.
"Tylor, Primitive Culture, vol. I, 139.
"White's Warfare of Science with Theology, I, 363.

94
WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
would have no pity on these witches," said Martin Luther, "I
would burn them all "; 15 and Richard Baxter, 45 after writing
The Saints' Rest, found time to urge a revival of witch
persecutions in England, where it had already died away.
Fortunately his efforts were in vain. Throughout Europe
during that period witchcraft was a felony without benefit
of clergy, and punishable with death by burning. Being
felonious, it naturally brought forfeiture of lands and goods,
so that the punishment was scarcely lighter than that in
China, though there may be some who regard burning
as less terrible than death by the slicing process. European
law, however, did not condemn the relatives of the witch
to suffer any other punishment than that entailed by the
loss of the property belonging to the accused, and by the
social ostracism of the community.
Burning was chosen in preference to some other form
of execution in Europe in order to avoid bloodshed, for the
holy men engaged in this war with the devil had no scruples
about subjecting delicate women to the rack, or condemning
them to the flames, but they shrank from bloodshed.
Blackstone says:-"To deny the possibility, nay, actual
existence, of witchcraft and sorcery, is at once flatly to
contradict the revealed word of God in various passages
both of the Old and New Testament: and the thing itself is a
truth to which every nation in the world hath in its turn
borne testimony, either by examples seemingly well attested,
or by prohibitory laws, which at least suppose the possibility of
commerce with evil spirits. The civil law punishes with death
not only the sorcerers themselves but also those who consult
them, imitating in the former the express law of God, 'Thou
shalt not suffer a witch to live.' And our own laws, both
Tylor, Primitive Culture, I, 137, 138.

WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
95
before and since the Conquest, have been equally penal,
ranking this crime in the same class with heresy, and
condemning both to the flames. . . . Our forefathers were
stronger believers when they enacted by Statute 33, Henry
VIII, c. 8, all witchcraft and sorcery to be felony without
benefit of clergy; and again by Statute 1, Jac. I, c. 12, that
all persons invoking any evil spirit, or consulting, covenanting
with, entertaining, employing, feeding, or rewarding any
evil spirit, or taking up dead bodies from their graves to be
used in any witchcraft, sorcery, charm, or enchantment; or
killing or otherwise hurting any person by such infernal
arts, should be guilty of felony without benefit of clergy and
suffer death." 46
We are also told by Blackstone that unsuccessful attempts
to injure anyone by witchcraft, or to provoke unlawful love,
restore goods, discover treasure, etc., were punished, if the
first offence, by the pillory, if a second, by death. These
English laws were repealed in 1736, but an unrepealed
Statute of 28 Elizabeth remained in force in Ireland until
1821, in accordance with which witchcraft, sorcery, etc. were
liable to capital punishment. In Prussia the last execution
for witchcraft took place in 1796.
For over a hundred years, therefore, the Western world
has been free from legal prosecutions for witchcraft. While
they still occur occasionally in China, the pages of Chinese
history have never been stained by such a mad epidemic of
witch-killing as disgraced Europe and America in the
seventeenth century.
The Chinese law has been greatly modified by recent
rescripts, which substitute decapitation for the ling ch'ih and
forbid the punishment of the relatives of a criminal and the
46 Blackstone, IV, 61.
47 Blackstone, IV, 62.

96
WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHINESE PENAL CODE.
members of his household, unless they are also accomplices
in the crime. In spite of these improvements, however, it
still remains possible in China to put a man to death upon a
charge of witchcraft, even though no one can be shown to
have been injured by his arts.
The Commission appointed to revise the Penal Code of
China has had for its most influential member H.E. Wu
Ting-fang, under whose guidance great changes have already
been made in the Statutes of the Empire. Death by the ling
ch'ih has been entirely abolished. The punishment of the
household of a criminal for no other offence than that of their
unfortunate relationship is also done away. Branding and
flogging are no longer permitted; fines and imprisonment at
hard labor are substituted for them. Torture to secure
confession in criminal cases is prohibited, except in case of
murder where the guilt of the prisoner is established. The
Commission has also secured an edict commanding the
establishment of workhouses, and these are being rapidly
built throughout the Empire. Humane prison regulations,
the establishment of law schools, and the admission of
attorneys to practice in the courts,-these too are notable
achievements of the Commission. This is a splendid
catalogue of reforms for the brief time in which it has been
at work.
We know that the more enlightened officials in China
have no faith in the professed powers of the sorcerer and the
magician, and we can but hope that before the Commission
completes its work the Code may be so amended as to make
future prosecutions for sorcery and witchcraft impossible.